:date: 2025-01-13

========================
Playing with Ibanity
========================

Monday, January 13, 2025

We are not going to become a PEPPOL Access Point, but we can become partner with
Ibanity. We pay them a yearly fee of 2400€ and for this we can give access to up
to 200 customers. It's not cheap but it's a reasonable price.

Getting started
===============

- I opened an account on their `developer portal
  <https://developer.ibanity.com>`__. This is where we will create credentials
  for our customers.

- They do not provide a web interface like Hermes where our customers would
  themselves manage their invoices. We must implement this interface in TIM. The
  TIM of my customers will connect to Ibanity using the credentials they get
  from us, and TIM must handle all events of the PEPPOL network: receiving
  invoices, sending invoices, verifying whether a business partner exists, ...

- They provide a sandbox application, which I can use to write and test how our
  software will access their API.

- `API Reference <https://documentation.ibanity.com>`__

- They have a `Python Library <https://github.com/ibanity/ibanity-python>`__,
  which  "provides wrappers around the Ibanity API."


I must now extend our accounting software TIM so that it uses the Ibanity API to
access the Peppol network. I will create credentials for my customers in the
Ibanity web interface. The TIM of my customers will connect to Ibanity using the
credentials they get from me, and TIM must handle the events of the PEPPOL
network: receiving invoices, sending invoices, verifying whether a business
partner exists, ...

I see that Ibanity had a Python library for accessing the API. But I also see
that the last commit in this library is 7 years old, and this library is not
published on PyPI, and there is no Python-specific documentation. I also know
that I can make raw API calls from within Python. So here is my first question:
Is this Python library actually being used by somebody? Is it a recommended way
to use the Ibanity API?

My first script
===============

Here is the first script I used for playing with Ibanity:

.. literalinclude:: 0113.py

I stored the client cert files in a directory below my :file:`~/.ssh`.

I read https://requests.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/advanced/#client-side-certificates

I had to decrypt the private key because Python's requests module doesn't
support encrypted keys::

  $ cd ~/.ssh/ibanity
  $ openssl rsa -in private_key.pem -out decrypted.private_key.pem

Now I am getting::

  ssl.SSLError: [SSL] PEM lib (_ssl.c:3900)

Maybe I specified `key_file` and `cert_file` in the wrong order. After inverting
the order I get at least a response::

  <Response [401]>

And 401 means "wrong credentials". So what is wrong with my credentials?

I discovered the place in the `python-ibanity` library that does the connection:
https://github.com/ibanity/ibanity-python/blob/master/ibanity/Ibanity.py

I see that the `python-ibanity` package doesn't use :mod:`requests`. Why?
