:date: 2025-02-14

=========================
Friday, February 14, 2025
=========================

I continued to explore the :term:`Ibanity API`. Thanks to Geoffrey who answered
my questions on their support platform.

Q: The Ibanity API documentation has three very similar sections about outbound
documents: `Invoice
<https://documentation.ibanity.com/einvoicing/1/api/curl#peppol-outbound-invoice>`__,
`Credit Note
<https://documentation.ibanity.com/einvoicing/1/api/curl#peppol-outbound-credit-note>`__
and `Document
<https://documentation.ibanity.com/einvoicing/1/api/curl#peppol-outbound-document>`__.
Everything seems to be the same for these three sections, except for the value
of ``type``. Why is this differentiation?

A: The `outbound-document resource
<https://documentation.ibanity.com/einvoicing/1/api/curl#peppol-outbound-document-object>`__
exists only to describe the response of `list-peppol-outbound-documents
<https://documentation.ibanity.com/einvoicing/1/api/curl#list-peppol-outbound-documents>`__,
which returns a list of all outbound documents, both invoices and credit notes
mixed up. Note that you cannot POST via this resource; when posting a document
you must specify either Invoice or CreditNote.

Q: What would happen if I would POST a credit note via the
`create-peppol-outbound-invoice
<https://documentation.ibanity.com/einvoicing/1/api/curl#create-peppol-outbound-invoice>`__
call?

A: It would return "invalid format" because Ibanity looks at the root element of
the :term:`UBL` file, which is either ``<Invoice>`` or ``<CreditNote>``, and it will not
match that of the POST. In the sandbox you cannot see this because the sandbox
doesn't do such verification.
