:date: 2025-04-17

========================
Thursday, April 17, 2025
========================

Today I continued testing :term:`Ibanity` synchronization using real data in
integration mode.

My first error message was::

  No transmissionId in {
  'data': {
    'id': 'd772574a-bddb-4a7b-9b60-4921736daaca',
    'type': 'peppolInvoice',
    'attributes': {
      'createdAt': '2025-04-17T06:43:37.760Z',
      'errors': [{
          'code': 'invalid-schematron',
          'detail': 'Belgian VAT number MUST bestated in the correct format.
          (/Invoice/cac:AccountingSupplierParty/cac:Party/cbc:EndpointID)\nBelgian VAT
          number MUST be stated in the correct format.
          (/Invoice/cac:AccountingCustomerParty/cac:Party/cbc:EndpointID)'}],
      'status': 'invalid',
      'technicalStatus': 'invalid'},
    'relationships': {
      'supplier': {'data': {
        'id': '249e6232-5d7d-4654-8547-c8b252309698',
        'type': 'supplier'}}}}}

Okay, this is probably yet another trace of having validated against the wrong
rule set. Seems that in Belgium they require the two first letters of the VAT
number to be specified in ``<cbc:EndpointID>```. Why not.

Next error message was:

-  "Supplier data in document can't be matched with data of supplier.
    Value found in //cac:AccountingSupplierParty/cac:Party/cac:PartyName/cbc:Name
    can't be matched with internal supplier data: FIRMA SOUNDSO AG"

Indeed, I had registered them using the name "Soundso A.G.", not "FIRMA SOUNDSO
AG". After changing the site owner's name to "SOUNDSO A.G." it worked.

Here is the next error message::

  No transmissionId in {'data': {'id': '94aa14c3-a5c6-49a3-9ec6-a13d66822087',
  'type': 'peppolInvoice', 'attributes': {'createdAt':
  '2025-04-17T07:09:44.016Z', 'errors': [{'code':
  'error-customer-not-registered', 'detail': "Identifier
  'iso6523-actorid-upis::9925:be 1234567890' is not registered in SML."}],
  'status': 'send-error', 'technicalStatus': 'send-error'}, 'relationships':
  {'supplier': {'data': {'id': '249e6232-5d7d-4654-8547-c8b252309698', 'type':
  'supplier'}}}}}

This makes sense because the recipient of that invoice obviously didn't yet
register to the Peppol network. The :term:`SML` means Service Metadata Locator
and because we said SchemeID "9925" (which means "Belgian VAT number"), they
probably queried the Belgian VAT office to ask whether the organization with VAT
id 1234567890 has already onboarded to the Peppol network.


TODO:

- The end user should not need to read the log messages of the SyncPeppol
  action. Such error messages should be stored in the :class:`OutboundDocument`
  instance.

- When the :term:`VAT Regime` is ``subject`` or ``cocontractor``, then  the end
  user doesn't need to check :attr:`PeppolPartner.send_peppol` because that's
  mandatory.
