:date: 2025-06-03

=====================
Tuesday, June 3, 2025
=====================

.. Tue 18:00-21:30 (-0:30) tim2peppol

I'm working on miscellaneous optimizations for tim2lino and Peppol.

What if a customer becomes send_peppol after the onboarding date, and had
already invoices sent before the onboarding date? For example I activate my
customer as a supplier, they start sending invoices to some of their customers.
One month later, two customers of my customer onboard and ask to receive
e-invoices. My customer also has sales invoices to these two customers during
the first month, these invoices were sent outside of peppol via email. Right now
Lino would send the invoices of the first month to these two customers.

This is why we now have :attr:`PeppolJournal.last_sending`.

Q: What happens when a supplier has peppolReceiver set to false and nevertheless
   asks for inbound documents? Will Ibanity simply return an empty list? Or will
   it return an error?

A: It returns an empty list

I asked two more questions on the :term:`Ibanity` forum:

- Is is allowed that a supplier sends their invoices with several days of delay?
  One of my customer wants this as a feature. They would generate a sales
  invoice, send it as a pro-forma invoice to their customer via email and give
  them two days for verifying the content.  The real invoice comes only after
  this verification. But they want the official invoice to be dated on the same
  date as the pro-forma invoice. They know that they cannot send any other sales
  invoices while waiting for feedback from the pro-forma invoices. Is this
  technically possible? Is it legally allowed?

- And another question. Another customer has multiple journals for issuing sales
  invoices, used by different salesmen. One salesman goes online every day and
  sends their invoices via Peppol.  The second salesman goes online only once a
  week. Is the second  salesman allowed to send an invoice dated three days ago
  when the first salesman has sent an invoice yesterday?

Both got the same answer: Out of scope of Peppol/API. Peppol doesn't care
when/what you send. So, it's technically allowed. Regulatory, you'll need to
find some info per region. My gut feeling is that it's not a problem.


TODO:

- Lino does not yet delete a supplier on Ibanity when I remove them from our
  list of suppliers.
