:date: 2025-12-14

=========================
Waiting for a miracle
=========================

Sunday, December 14, 2025

Last month brought at least four sad pieces of news for Lino:

Noémy decided, after a promising first meeting, to *not* start using Lino. The
obvious reason is the bus factor: their Lino site would have more than 200
users, and they can't put such a responsibility on the shoulders of a
almost-one-man project.

Sharif wants to immigrate to Europe, together with his wife. Which means that he
will be lost for Lino because I cannot afford a European salary for him. Of
course he will find a job, sooner or later, because he is good.  He's both
intelligent and able to work in a team. I endorse him. I recommended him to
Thorgate, who were reluctant at first because an immigrant means administrative
effort for them, but upon my word they reconsidered the case and invited him to
a job interview. Sharif sincerely plans to continue working for Lino at the
weekends, but I know how it will go: after 40 hours staring at a screen he will
prefer doing things with his wife and their children. At least I hope that he
will. I would worry if he wouldn't. Today I rose priority for ticket
:ticket:`5239` (Document & test the React front end) on his to-do list. This
ticket becomes urgent because his first job interview will be next Friday, and
things could get out of hand quickly if Thorgate decide to engage him.

Astrid had been planning to to work a few hours per week for Lino, besides her
full-time job as a mother of three children. But two days ago she heard that she
will need to find a "real" job in January 2026 because the Estonian government
"optimized" the rules about paying health insurance for parents and  no longer
considers her a full-time mother.

Andres introduced me to a potential new Lino user, and during the meeting it
turned out that publishing the source code is not an option for them. They were
unable to understand why proprietary software is not an option for me.  I spent
multiple hours with Andres to explain him the Synodalsoft vision and why I'm
doing Lino. But people don't believe that software should be free.

As a result, I currently feel a bit resigned: I failed to bring Synodalsoft to
the next level. The Synodalsoft vision was too big for a single human life. And
I was not enough of a manager for such a big vision. It is not enough to publish
all your software under the *GNU Affero General Public License* (AGPL) (as I
wrote in `The Synodalsoft project <https://www.saffre-rumma.net/lsf>`__); if you
want your intellectual work to be "sustainably free, usable for everybody and
forever", you also need to do the administrative stuff of institutionalizing
yourself. Software needs more than a human, it also needs legal person to care
for it. When I will be gone, Lino will be just be an orphaned software project,
and there is nothing I can do about it, except keep watching out for a miracle,
which includes doing my best for providing perfect service to my customers.

..
  - IQ Inc. : `When No One Owns the Code: The Challenge of Taking Over Client Projects
    <https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/when-one-owns-code-challenge-taking-over-client-projects-iq-inc--pfbde/>`__

  - Wikpedia on `Orphaned technology <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orphaned_technology>`__:
    "Technologies orphaned due to failure on the part of their startup developers can
    be picked up by another investor."

  - Northwoods `How to Determine if Your Software Has Been Orphaned (And What to
    Do Next)
    <https://www.nwsdigital.com/Services/Software-Development/Software-Rescue>`__:
    "In a market crowded with applications, software-based tools, and software
    developers, it’s all too easy to invest in a dying product or unsustainable
    solution. Here’s how to spot software that’s on its way to the orphanage and
    tips to help you move on."
