:date: 2020-01-03

=======================
Friday, January 3, 2020
=======================

:ref:`presto`  `build #32
<https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/presto/builds/632035378>`_ failed with
:message:`ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'lino_book'`.  This was caused by
some obsolete approach for filling intersphinx in the :xfile:`conf.py` file.
I compared with the :xfile:`conf.py` file in :ref:`amici`.

Challenges when preparing a release in a team
=============================================

About :ticket:`3433`. This is the first time that two developers (Hamza and I)
collaborate for testing and preparing an individual release (more precisely: an
upgrade of a production site.  The code of the production site is more than one
year old. The site is quite stable, so they have almost no change requests of
their own. The main reason for this release is to upgrade Python 2 to 3.  All
this wouldn't be a problem, but they also asked us to make sure that the upgrade
"will not cause any problems". And it is interesting to analyze the challenges
of this new situation.

I have set up a preview site, and Hamza has now access to both the production
and the preview site.  HE has been working 5 hours on this yesterday in order to
find differences. He has created and updated a Google Drive document "Ã–SHZ Eupen
20.2.0 release notes". I had started release notes in German long time ago in a
Sphinx document :ref:`weleup.19.11.0`. But I had no time to explain to Hamza all
the bells and whistles of using a Sphinx document. Hamza decided to use a table,
but I am afraid that this is not readable for the customer. We must rather use a
format as in :ref:`weleup.19.11.0`.

I started a documentation page about :ref:`dev.changes`

Until now my release notes for this site have been in German. If we want Hamza
to help me, this document must be either in English or in French. Even their
application expert probably doesn't know (and probably doesn't *want* to know)
that the German abbreviation "VSE" is called "ISIP" in English and "PIIS" in
French.  Or that a "coaching" is called "Begleitung" in German and
"Intervention" in French. Another challenge is that their production site
actually has no English language.  Hamza does the comparison in French.  Can we
assume that Tonis will never do a release for :ref:`welfare` because he speaks
neither French nor German, and because :ref:`welfare` will never be used in
English because it is specific for Belgium? It's not that sure.  Maybe a
vocabulary page with a few dozen of entries would be enough to make everybody
happy.  I vaguely remember that I once even started such a page, but I didn't
find it right now.

Questions to Gerd:

- Would you agree to replace Dutch by English on your site?
- Would you agree to get the release notes in English only?  Or in French only?
