:date: 2020-01-03

=======================
Friday, January 3, 2020
=======================

No module named 'lino_book'
===========================

Build `#32 <https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/presto/builds/632035378>`_ in
:ref:`presto` failed with :message:`ModuleNotFoundError: No module named
'lino_book'`.  I guess that this is caused by some obsolete approach for filling
intersphinx in the :xfile:`conf.py` file. I compared with the :xfile:`conf.py`
file in :ref:`amici`.

But that wasn't enough (as build `#34
<https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/presto/builds/632146350>`__ shows).  Yes,
indeed, it seems that we do need a PyPI release of book just for making its docs
available to intersphinx!

Challenges when preparing a release in a team
=============================================

About :ticket:`3433`. This is the first time that two developers (Hamza and I)
collaborate for testing and preparing an individual release (more precisely: an
upgrade of a production site.  The code of the production site is more than one
year old. The site is quite stable, so they have almost no change requests of
their own. The main reason for this release is to upgrade Python 2 to 3.  All
this wouldn't be a problem, but they also asked us to make sure that the upgrade
"will not cause any problems". And it is interesting to analyze the challenges
of this new situation.

I have set up a preview site and a migration script, and Hamza has now access to
both the production and the preview site.  He has been working 5 hours on this
yesterday in order to find differences. He has created and updated a Google
Drive document "ÖSHZ Eupen 20.2.0 testing report". I had started release notes in
German long time ago in a Sphinx document :ref:`weleup.19.11.0`. But I had no
time to explain to Hamza all the bells and whistles of using a Sphinx document.
Hamza decided to use a table, but I am afraid that this is not readable for the
customer. We must rather use a format as in :ref:`weleup.19.11.0`.

I started a documentation page about :ref:`dev.changes`

Until now my release notes for this site have been in German. If we want Hamza
to help me, this document must be either in English or in French. Even their
application expert probably doesn't know (and probably doesn't *want* to know)
that the German abbreviation "VSE" is called "ISIP" in English and "PIIS" in
French.  Or that a "coaching" is called "Begleitung" in German and
"Intervention" in French. Another challenge is that their production site
actually has no English language.  Hamza does the comparison in French.  Can we
assume that Tonis will never do a release for :ref:`welfare` because he speaks
neither French nor German, and because :ref:`welfare` will never be used in
English because it is specific for Belgium? It's not that sure.  Maybe a
vocabulary page with a few dozen of entries would be enough to make everybody
happy.  I vaguely remember that I once even started such a page, but I didn't
find it right now.

Remarks to Gerd:

- I suggest to replace Dutch by English on your site.


We started a new document :ref:`weleup.changes.2020`.

Release notes for :ref:`weleup` are no longer done in German but in English.
The customer can ask for a summary or presentation in German.


no module named lino_care.lib.care.workflows
============================================

Build `#1637.2 <https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/book/jobs/632146357>`_ in
book failed with sphinx.errors.SphinxWarning:
:message:`[autosummary] failed to import 'lino_care.lib.care.workflows': no module named lino_care.lib.care.workflows`

I guess that this is just because the PyPI version of care is obsolete. The
:ref:`care` project fell asleep more than a year ago because the application
carrier went out of money.  It is still a part of the book.  I might move the
relevant docs files from the book into the care repository and let the project
sleep in peace. But it is less work to just make a pro-forma release of care.

Advancing in :ref:`cosi`
========================

I upgraded our :ref:`cosi` production site and tested the new :term:`preliminary
transactions` feature. It works, and (finally!) Lino gives the same numbers in
our January 2018 VAT declaration as those we declared using TIM.

One non-blocking issue : the new field
:attr:`lino_xl.lib.accounting.Journal.preliminary`  was not yet included in the
detail view.
