:date: 2020-01-09

=========================
Thursday, January 9, 2020
=========================

I released XL to PyPI in order to advance with :ticket:`2810` (Migrate Rumma &
Ko accounting to Cosi).

I manually reviewed and changed the following cases  in Jane that caused problems during the last migration
because of :ticket:`2049` (Users don't need to be partners in Noi)::

  202001-04 14:12:49 WARNING [dpy 21382 140330224551744] : Abandoning with 34 unsaved instances:
  - tickets.Ticket Person matching query does not exist. (3 object(s) with primary key 1741, 1789, 2786)
  - tickets.Ticket {'end_user': ['Person instance with partner_ptr 302 does not exist.']} (6 object(s) with primary key 2029, 2030, 2031, 2032, 2139, 2197)
  - tickets.Ticket {'end_user': ['Person instance with partner_ptr 214 does not exist.']} (1 object(s) with primary key 2246)
  - tickets.Ticket {'end_user': ['Person instance with partner_ptr 223 does not exist.']} (2 object(s) with primary key 2659, 2691)
  - tickets.Ticket {'end_user': ['Person instance with partner_ptr 331 does not exist.']} (1 object(s) with primary key 2891)
  - github.Commit {'ticket': ['Ticket instance with id 2197 does not exist.']} (1 object(s) with primary key 2576)
  - github.Commit {'ticket': ['Ticket instance with id 2691 does not exist.']} (2 object(s) with primary key 5633, 5635)
  - tickets.Link {'parent': ['Ticket instance with id 2197 does not exist.']} (1 object(s) with primary key 184)
  - working.Session Ticket matching query does not exist. (17 object(s) with primary key 6232, 6388, 7429, 7502, 7503, 7504, 7505, 7988, 8232, 8302, 8418, 10529, 10531, 10709, 10711, 11175, 117
  27)


Milestone March
===============

I record our yesterday's standup meeting here because it has historic value.
During the next months we will change some priorities.

Luc: Hi. I cannot talk because I'm sitting with Iiris in the bus to Pärnu, the bus has WiFi but I forgot my headset

Okay I now agree: let's remove Ciao and Amici from the list of hosted
applications.  Because it is difficult to explain why they are useful. So we
need only the following demo sites :

- Così using ExtJS
- Noi using React
- later maybe Voga and Welfare

Tonis: Maybe react for cosi as well, so 3 sites.

Luc: Yes, the exact setup must be flexible anyway. For example there will be at least an estonian and a belgian cosi

Let me focus on Cosi while you focus on Noi.

For March I would like to have an "impressing" Lino Noi that I can present to
some people in Tallinn for my project "Gaudete".
Slogan : "Discuss as easily as on Facebook, but find back your discussions when
you need them."

Tonis: Mmhm, so definitely we'll need to have something like zulip for chat. Also need
to get the websockets working on react, otherwise it doesn't work at all...

Luc: I am not convinced that we need desktop notifications in the beginning.
Rather just a dynamic "refresh" button at different places that indicates
whether there is something to refresh.

Tonis: I think we should have some nestable comments / replies.

Should have another look at zulip, see what ordering they're doing.

It should be that newest at the top of the ui. But if you have a reply, should
the reply be under the parent comment, or on top...  if that's understandable.
reddit has it so the parent is always on top, as you're usually reading a
thread for the first time,  IIRK twitter and perhaps zulip have it the other
way, as you're checking back on a thread....

Luc:

(We should do more) regular brainstormings on what needs to be changed in Noi.
My first spontaneous list of ideas:

- "Recent comments" : (a) optimize the design (b) add a "Reply link to every comment
- add upvotes and downvotes as on reddit
- add a new kind of views: additionally to the existing "grid" and "detail" views, Lino should introduce a "navigate" view.

"Navigate" view:

- current detail view (e.g. https://hobbit.saffre-rumma.net/#/api/tickets/Tickets/411) shows the ticket in "ready to Edit" mode.

- the new navigate view (e.g. https://hobbit.saffre-rumma.net/t/411) shows the ticket in "navigate" mode where a meaningful and intuitive overview is the primary goal. Customized per model.

I want to get the Gaudete people to start a Noi site. I believe that we can do it. Let's put all our energy into these two projects (Noi and Cosi).
I'd even say : If I cannot convince the Gaudete people in March, then I give up Lino.

Tonis: Gaudete are the church group or?

Luc: yes.
I'll try to describe the needs. but anyway it will be dynamic requirements.
First important thing is that you can discuss using your mobile phone. some of them never use a desktop.
But the admins do.
Another important new thing is this "navigation" view. (Or "Surfer" view... I am not yet sure bout the name).
Not sure whether that customized view per model should be done using element trees or rather using jinja templates.
The goal of these navigation views is that users can share via url a web page about a given ticket (or user,  calendar entry, comment, ...) so that the content makes sense to external surfers.

Tonis: Mmhm, we have a perma-link for each item, but there's no share button... might be worth having.

Luc: a share button can come later. i think that most people are able to share a link using their browser. imho...

I imagine that navigate view as follows:

1) a model mixin "Surfable" with a method get_html_page() and a class attribute "surf_url_root".
And another instance method get_id()

Oops we arrive in Tallinn...


weleup : Final sprint for coming site upgrade
=============================================

I analyzed the following warnings during data migration:

- aids.IncomeConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 01.03.17...14.10.17 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 01.03.17...13.10.17.'] (2 object(s) with primary key 6112, 6111)
- aids.IncomeConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 01.03.17...15.10.17 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 01.03.17...13.10.17.'] (1 object(s) with primary key 5382)
- aids.IncomeConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 01.02.09...15.04.18 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 01.02.09...14.04.18.'] (1 object(s) with primary key 5428)
- aids.IncomeConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 22.12.16...14.05.19 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 22.12.16...13.05.19.'] (1 object(s) with primary key 5534)
- aids.IncomeConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 06.04.19...06.04.19 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 01.03.19...10.03.19.'] (2 object(s) with primary key 5626, 5881)
- aids.IncomeConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 01.05.18...01.05.18 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 08.09.18....'] (1 object(s) with primary key 6030)
- aids.IncomeConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 03.09.19...03.09.19 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 16.08.19...02.09.19.'] (1 object(s) with primary key 6043)
- aids.IncomeConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 05.09.19...01.11.19 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 05.09.19...31.10.19.'] (1 object(s) with primary key 6218)
- aids.IncomeConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 14.07.18...26.10.19 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 13.07.18...14.09.18.'] (2 object(s) with primary key 6260, 6261)
- aids.RefundConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 15.02.19...15.02.19 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 01.08.19....'] (1 object(s) with primary key 5904)
- aids.RefundConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 15.03.19...15.03.19 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 01.06.15...12.03.19.'] (1 object(s) with primary key 5989)
- aids.RefundConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 19.03.19...19.03.19 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 01.06.15...12.03.19.'] (1 object(s) with primary key 5990)
- aids.RefundConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 18.03.19...18.03.19 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 14.03.19...17.03.19.'] (1 object(s) with primary key 5997)
- aids.RefundConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 18.03.19...18.03.19 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 01.06.15...12.03.19.'] (1 object(s) with primary key 6002)
- aids.RefundConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 20.03.19...20.03.19 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 01.08.19....'] (1 object(s) with primary key 6008)
- aids.RefundConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 04.04.19...04.04.19 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 01.08.19....'] (1 object(s) with primary key 6062)
- aids.RefundConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 09.05.19...10.05.19 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 01.08.19....'] (1 object(s) with primary key 6167)
- aids.RefundConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 09.05.19...09.05.19 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 01.08.19....'] (1 object(s) with primary key 6168)
- aids.RefundConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 05.07.19...05.07.19 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 01.08.19....'] (1 object(s) with primary key 6342)
- aids.RefundConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 12.11.19...12.11.19 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 12.01.16...01.10.19.'] (1 object(s) with primary key 6680)
- aids.RefundConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 25.11.19...25.11.19 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 02.09.18...12.11.19.'] (1 object(s) with primary key 6717)
- aids.RefundConfirmation ['Datumsbereich 05.12.19...05.12.19 au<C3><9F>erhalb der Laufzeit des Beschlusses 12.01.16...01.10.19.'] (1 object(s) with primary key 6767)

These warnings were normal because I must adapt the value of the
:attr:`aids.no_date_range_veto_until` plugin config. I now changed it from::

        yield ('aids', 'no_date_range_veto_until', 5343)

to::

        yield ('aids', 'no_date_range_veto_until', 6767)

Tonight Hamza or I will run :xfile:`pull.sh` followed by another
:xfile:`initdb_from_prod.sh`.

I reviewed the release notes.


RelatedObjectDoesNotExist: Voucher has no journal
=================================================

Migrate our accounting from TIM to Lino
=======================================

I entered all sales invoices 2018.

Next problem is in June : ost EL firmadelt (purchase of services from other EU
countries).  The base amount should come in field 1, and the VAT amount in 4.1
and 5.  Everything is correct except that the base amount is not shown in field
1.


How to handle requests via the IP address
=========================================

When the server's IP address is not listed in :setting:`ALLOWED_HOSTS`, Lino
refuses to answer.  But one of our production site is obviously being monitored
by some unknown third-party robots who use the IP address.  These third-party
robots are e.g. 35.245.221.30 (IP owner is Google) or 34.238.127.187 (Amazon).
The special thing with this site is that Lino runs on the main domain.  We
usually have Lino on some subdomain, so that nginx or apache handle such
requests.

Actually it's correct that Lino refuses to answer these requests. But we don't
want it to send an email "Invalid HTTP_HOST header: '95.142.174.49'. You may
need to add '95.142.174.49' to ALLOWED_HOSTS." for each of them. I opened
:ticket:`3457`.

But the good solution is to change the DNS config. We don not yet want a
`solution like this one
<https://wellfire.co/learn/multi-tennancy-in-django-using-subdomains/>`__ where
a Django app analyzes the subdomain.


Estonian VAT declaration
========================

The base amount of intracom purchases must go to field 1.  So the field 1 in
Estonian VAT declaration is a mixture of sales (with regime private or subject)
and purchases (with regime intracom).  So we need to introduce two intermediate
fields 1a and 1b that are not declared to the tax office, and field 1 becomes a
sum of those fields.

I found and fixed a bug in the general vat plugin : inversed sums (fieldname
prefixed with -) were not yet correctly computed.

Idem for field 2 for operations with reduced vat rate.

And a third bug for today. A subtle one:  invoices with returnable VAT booked
the couple movements (one + and one -) into the wrong direction. The amount is
added to the vat_due account and subtracted from the vat_returnable_account (and
not the opposite).
