:date: 2020-02-24

=========================
Monday, February 24, 2020
=========================

Customized calendar views
=========================

About :ticket:`3502`.
I try to formulate a problem on which I have been meditating during almost three weeks now.
I advance slowly, partly because the problem is complex
and partly because I have so many other urgent projects to think about.

Summary of the problem in one sentence: The calview plugin needs some
fundamental changes to make customized calendar views possible.

A calendar is a set of three "calendar views" (called "daily", "weekly" and
"monthly") that share a common **calendar navigator**.  That navigator knows
about the three views and can intuitively switch between them.

The default calendar is set up as follows:

======== ================= ================
view     rows              columns
======== ================= ================
daily    DailyPlannerRows  PlannerColumns
weekly   DailyPlannerRows  weekdays
monthly  weeks             weekdays
======== ================= ================

Where :class:`calview.DailyPlannerRows` defaults to two rows "AM" and "PM".
:class:`cal.PlannerColumns` defaults to two rows "internal" and "external".  The
first is a data table while the second is a choicelist.

Each calendar view is an actor.   While the daily view is a data table, the two
others are virtual tables.  What they have in common is (a) that they have no
grid view (default action is :class:`ShowDetail`) and (b) that their detail
views contain a "calendar navigator" on the left side and some "calendar slave"
on the right side.

A **calendar slave** is a slave table whose master is :class:`calview.Day`.

In Presto we want an additional "customized" calendar where
:class:`calview.DailyPlannerRows` is replaced by :class:`contacts.Workers`.


Meanwhile I realized that we need a new choicelist "calview.Navigators" where
each choice has the following properties (in addition to the normal properties
of a choice)::

  daily_view
  weekly_view
  monthly_view
  plannable_model

The "plannable" model of a navigator is a database model that inherits from
`calview.Plannable`.
