:date: 2020-03-27

======================
Friday, March 27, 2020
======================

I continued on :ticket:`3477`.  The :term:`end-user documentation`
(:ref:`presto.de.tour`) is getting presentable.  I hope to record some screen
casts soon.

I removed the :attr:`purchase_stories` plugin attribute as setting this to False
was functionally equivalent of having :attr:`lino_xl.lib.vat.declaration_plugin`
set to `None`. Side effect: the pierre demo project had no declaration plugin
and therefore no longer has purchase invoices, and consequently cannot serve as
example in :ref:`xl.specs.accounting`.  We use apc instead.  Adapting the doctests
took some time...

Oops: inserting a task on a client in cal.TasksByProject doesn't assign the task
to that client. Yes, :attr:`lino_presto.lib.presto.settings.Site.project_model`
is "presto.Client".   That's strange because e.g. for TicketsBySite it works.
That's a ticket on its own: :ticket:`3562`.

Inserting in TasksByProject doesn't set the project
===================================================

When I insert in
TicketsBySite, the mt and mk are included with the POST request. Aha, the
problem comes only when using the insert button provided by the summary panel.
The bug was in lino/core/actors.py::

    ir = cls.insert_action.request_from(ar)

En passant I added a new method
:meth:`lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.is_obvious_field` which is now used by
:class:`lino.mixins.ProjectRelated` to add the project (between parantheses) in
the :meth:`lino.core.model.Model.summary_row`, except "when it is obvious".
Especially for the tasks listed in `TasksByProject` you don't want Lino to
repeat the client name for each task.

Until now this typical behaviour had to be implemented explicitly by the
application developer. Now is is "out of the box" at least for
:class:`lino.mixins.ProjectRelated`, which can be considered an example of this
design pattern.  TODO: rename this to `get_row_description` and write
documentation.

A minor disadvantage: the ordering of the description items have changed for
:class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.Component`.  There is some danger that :ref:`welfare`
users might complain about it.
