:date: 2020-04-21

=======================
Tuesday, April 21, 2020
=======================

(Continued from :doc:`0420`)

That worked, but it didn't fix my original problem:  MarkEventTookPlace now
complained that there is no guest state "invited".

So I leave the default guest state at "invited", but that's only the internal
name, the verbose name is "Planned" or "Present".  In Presto they want to use
something quite similar to the voga workflow, but they really don't want to have
to mark their workers as present or not before marking an entry as "took place".
Marking an entry as took place, in Presto, means that all workers who were
planned where present.

We want to inherit from Voga workflows, but we want to remove the
MarkEventTookPlace transition. But it's not possible to undo an
:meth:`add_transition` because the transition action immediately gets quite
installed into the system.

To fix this, I added an attribute :attr:`transition` to the
:class:`lino.core.workflows.State` class.  This has a side effect: Lino no
longer allows to define several transitions for the same target state.  If you
try this, you get an exception "Tried to add another transition to <state
name>".

There were about 3 cases where this side effect occurred, and I could convert
them into normalized transitions.

I removed several workflow modules from the autosummary directives, i.e. they
are no longer included in the autodoc API docs.  Indeed they are like the
:xfile:`models.py` modules and :xfile:`choicelists.py` modules of a plugin: thy
import :mod:`lino.api.dd` at module level and therefore might Django to raise  a
:class:`django.core.exceptions.AppRegistryNotReady` exception :message:`Apps
aren't loaded yet`. I just don't understand why it worked until now.



About ticket dependencies
=========================

I have been working now many hours on :ticket:`3599`.
We needed this for :ticket:`3477`.

- :ticket:`3599` : Develop and install a next version of their software
  according to their 20 page specifications

- :ticket:`3477` : A seemingly minor problem that occurred while working on
  :ticket:`3599`.  I decided that this is an interesting case for the Calendar
  plugin and maybe even for Lino in general.

Of course this would be difficult to explain to the customer. Of course there
are always two basic attitudes when working on a customer request:

(1) fix it using a quick hack, get rid of the problem, do just what they asked,
    don't overkill the bug, don't worry more than needed.

(2) analyze the problem and learn from it, improve the framework or the xl in
    order to have less work in the future with similar topics.

The normal capitalistic attitude of a customer wants me to prefer (1) in most
cases.  That's why it is better to sell software development services with a
flat rate price, not with an hourly tariff.

It can be difficult to estimate how much time I had spent on this issue if my
goal was just a "quick hack".  A quick hack can take more time than a thorough
analysis.

The customer actually is not interested in the details, they just want to have
something that shows them that my price is not simple fantasy.

But independently of the sales work we want to know at least internally how
things are related, why a given change has been done, how much time it took,
etc.

The customer (and we) would like to see in their service report that I also have
been working on a :ticket:`3477` for which they didn't ask directly but which
was indirectly needed for their general request.

I see two possible directions:

- We might differentiate between "wishes" (customer requests) and "tickets"
  (tasks to do).  During data migration every ticket with a non-empty end_user
  field would become a wish.  A working session would have an additional pointer
  "wish". And ticket would become nullable.

- Or we don't use a separate Wish model but review the
  user interface for managing ticket dependencies.

To be meditated.
