:date: 2020-04-23

========================
Thursday, April 23, 2020
========================

Registrable and toggle_state
============================

Oops, :ticket:`3602` was more complex. No no,  the :class:`Registrable
<lino.mixins.registrable.Registrable>` mixin worked also when there was no state
named "registered". We *do* want certain fields of a course to be read-only in
certain states.  We don't want let end users edit e.g. the teacher or the room
of an active course. To change these fields, you need to first switch back to
"draft".  This concept of "registrable fields" is the main feature of
Registrable.

Only the relatively new :meth:`toggle_state
<lino.mixins.registrable.Registrable.toggle_state>` action also required a state
named "registered".

I undid my yesterday changes (i.e. Reservation again inherits from Registrable)
and moved the :meth:`toggle_state
<lino.mixins.registrable.Registrable.toggle_state>` action to the
:class:`lino_xl.lib.ledger.RegistrableVoucher` mixin.   Also started to review
the docstrings.


Miscellaneous
=============

We fixed a subtle bug : Lino can get confused when collecting
:setting:`STATICFILES_DIRS` on a site having a :attr:`project_dir` containing a
symbolic link. This later caused Django to complain about duplicate files during
:manage:`collectstatic`.

And Lino no longer sets the :setting:`STATICFILES_DIRS` Django setting.  This
setting is not used by Lino, I remember vaguely that I have been trying to use
it when experimenting with a Qooxdoo front end years ago.

The default name of the directory used as :setting:`STATIC_ROOT` is now
:xfile:`static_root` (and no longer :xfile:`static`).   Getlino always creates
it as a subdirectory of the environment.

That's mainly because
:xfile:`static` is used for the "source" directories of the
:manage:`collectstatic` command, and it sounds a bit dangerous to use the same
name for the target directory.


Presto
======

Yesterday I recorded a first screen cast about :ref:`presto` and added a link to
it in :ref:`presto.de.tour`. Yes, it's in German, the customer's language.

Today I fixed a few demo effects encountered in the screen cast (search by
client name, filter per team in Orders table)

I started to prepare the next screen cast, which will show the calendar view. At
least one thing was still missing there : customized values in
:class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.PlannerColumns`.

Discovered another bug : filtering doesn't seem to work in the weekly or daily
calendar view.
