:date: 2020-05-21

======================
Thursday, May 21, 2020
======================

I worked on :ticket:`3652`.
Steve made me discover a design bug in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.vat`: the `item_vat`
option (whether we want to include VAT in the price of the items of an invoice)
does not depend on the :term:`VAT regime`. My solution at the moment is to have
it configurable as a plugin attribute, i.e. globally per site.  This works for
now. Though it is maybe also not the final solution because we might get a
customer who wants certain invoices with `item_vat` set to True and others with
`item_vat` set to False. Maybe it should become a database field on Journal. But
it's too early for a decision.  Let's leave this question open until we have
such a customer.

This caused some work for adapting the test cases because  most invoices now
have a bigger amount.

:ref:`specs.cosi.cosi1`

How to edit the invoice template
================================

Steve wants to be able to configure himself his invoice template. :ticket:`3656`.

First step : make a local copy of the relevant templates::

  $ go mysite
  $ cp -a env/lib/python3.6/site-packages/lino_xl/lib/trading/config .



Lino doesn't find the local config dir
======================================

I discovered that Lino doesn't find the local :xfile:`config` directory for
switcom.  :ticket:`3657`

In weleup this bug doesn't come out because the :xfile:`config` subdir of the
project directory is actually a symbolic link::

  $ ls -ld config
  lrwxrwxrwx 1 lsaffre  www-data     19 Sep 28  2018 config -> media/webdav/config

In that case the :func:`os.path.isdir` returns `False`, which
I obviously ignored when I wrote
:meth:`lino.core.site.Site.get_settings_subdirs`.
We definitively should resolve symbolic links before asking whether it is a directory.
This second bug made that the first didn't come out.

One thing is clear : the local config directory should come first.
