:date: 2020-05-29

====================
Friday, May 29, 2020
====================

Exploring Laktor
================

I stumbled once more into the Lektor static site generator, and gave it another
try.

In the `installation instructions
<https://www.getlektor.com/docs/installation/>`__ they ask me to run :cmd:`curl
-sf https://www.getlektor.com/installer.py | python3`. But I prefer to say
:cmd:`pip install lektor` instead. Is there something wrong with that?  Yes, as
they say: "Lektor actively manages virtualenvs for plugin installations in very
specific ways and this might or might not work in your setup. We support pip
installations for deployment environments and local development only."

My next page was `Quickstart <https://www.getlektor.com/docs/quickstart/>`__.
Great.

https://www.getlektor.com/docs/project/structure/



About rounding
==============

I had a look into :ticket:`3662` and noticed that the original problem is not
directly reproducible:

>>> from lino_xl.lib.ledger.utils import myround, Decimal
>>> 1487.50 * 0.21
312.375
>>> print(myround(Decimal("312.375")))
312.38

The problem is that Lino computes and rounds the VAT amount for every item. And
consequently the total of VAT amounts is not necessarily the same as the VAT of
the total amount.  This situation is actually legally okay (as far as I
remember).

Furthermore I realized that the item_vat option must be configurable per
journal. Having it as a global parameter won't be enough because in a salespoint
invoice we will want it to be True while in a b2b sales invoice we want it
False.  And in a purchase invoice we sometimes want to manually adjust the VAT
amount because each vendor's accounting system might have its own rounding
philosophy (per item or not)

One solution might be to add an option "re-compute VAT per invoice". If that
option is set, Lino would do another loop over the dict returned by
:meth:'get_payable_sums_dict' where the VAT amount would be computed from the
total base amount.  This would mean that the VAT amounts of the individual items
are "just informative".

To be meditated.
