:date: 2020-06-10

========================
Wednesday, June 10, 2020
========================

Retry wagtail as a CMS
======================

I think we are going to use a wagtail site for the laudate project.  In theory I
would prefer to do it with a Lino site, but reality sometimes differs from
theory: the users of the laudate project won't have time to actively contribute
to development. And why not have a look over the fence into other projects.

https://docs.wagtail.io/en/stable/getting_started

First steps on the laudate server::

  $ cd /usr/local/lino/lino_local
  $ mkdir laudate
  $ cd laudate
  $ virtualenv -p python3 env
  $ a
  $ pip install wagtail
  $ wagtail start mysite
  Creating a Wagtail project called mysite
  Success! mysite has been created

  $ cd mysite
  $ pip install -r requirements.txt
  $ ./manage.py migrate
  $ ./manage.py createsuperuser
  $ ./manage.py runserver

I noticed that it requires Django<3.1

I then noticed that this quick start is for a developer site. Need to adapt the
settings for a production site.


How to properly configure postfix and mailman
=============================================

I continued (partly with Tonis and partly with Hamza) to try to get the mail
systems running properly. I started a new section :ref:`admin.mail` in the
hoster's guide of the book.

Now we get another error from the recipient's SMTP server:

  status=deferred (host mx01.emig.gmx.net[212.227.17.5] refused to talk to me: 554-gmx.net (mxgmx115)
  Nemesis ESMTP Service not available 554-No SMTP service 554-Bad DNS PTR resource
  record. 554 For explanation visit
  https://www.gmx.net/mail/senderguidelines?ip=95.217.218.29&c=rdns)

How to test an SMTP server::

  $ telnet lino-framework.org 465
  Trying 167.114.229.225...
  Connected to lino-framework.org.
  Escape character is '^]'.

For laudate we had to uncomment the ``smtps`` entry in
:xfile:`/etc/postfix/master.cf`::

  smtps     inet  n       -       y       -       -       smtpd



Mxtools said "Reverse DNS is not a Valid Hostname" for laudate. That's fixed
now.

TIL that also reverse DNS has a propagation time.

TIL that I can say :cmd:`dig` to do a DNS lookup, and  :cmd:`dig -x` to do a
reverse DNS lookup. :cmd:`dig laudate.ee` gives me `95.217.218.29` and :cmd:`dig
-x 95.217.218.29` gives me `laudate.ee`::

  $ dig laudate.ee
  ; <<>> DiG 9.11.3-1ubuntu1.12-Ubuntu <<>> laudate.ee
  ;; global options: +cmd
  ;; Got answer:
  ;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 58844
  ;; flags: qr rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 1

  ;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
  ; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 65494
  ;; QUESTION SECTION:
  ;laudate.ee.			IN	A

  ;; ANSWER SECTION:
  laudate.ee.		3600	IN	A	95.217.218.29

  ;; Query time: 12 msec
  ;; SERVER: 127.0.0.53#53(127.0.0.53)
  ;; WHEN: Wed Jun 10 17:03:36 EEST 2020
  ;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 55

  $ dig -x 95.217.218.29

  ; <<>> DiG 9.11.3-1ubuntu1.12-Ubuntu <<>> -x 95.217.218.29
  ;; global options: +cmd
  ;; Got answer:
  ;; ->>HEADER<<- opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 26604
  ;; flags: qr rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 0, ADDITIONAL: 1

  ;; OPT PSEUDOSECTION:
  ; EDNS: version: 0, flags:; udp: 65494
  ;; QUESTION SECTION:
  ;29.218.217.95.in-addr.arpa.	IN	PTR

  ;; ANSWER SECTION:
  29.218.217.95.in-addr.arpa. 72562 IN	PTR	mail.laudate.ee.

  ;; Query time: 6 msec
  ;; SERVER: 127.0.0.53#53(127.0.0.53)
  ;; WHEN: Wed Jun 10 17:06:59 EEST 2020
  ;; MSG SIZE  rcvd: 84


But why does it say ``mail.laudate.ee`` instead of simply ``laudate.ee``?

Both FQDN resolve to the same IP address because we configured a wildcard in the
zone file.

Note that the same is true for ``mail.lino-framework.org``, which is given as
the Reverse DNS for the IP address of LF::

  $ telnet mail.lino-framework.org 465

In the ovh console I noticed that the "Reverse DNS" for the LF server was set to
"mail.lino-framework.org". I changed this to "lino-framework.org" (without the
"mail" subdomain). Afterwards everything (both sending and receiving a mail via
luc@LF using TB) was still working.

It seems that the `mail` subdomain (or sometimes `smtp` or `mx`) is general
practice.  It makes sense to have your mail server on a
different machine than your application.  Already for security reasons.
Also in order to be scalable.

https://serverfault.com/questions/711600/reverse-dns-is-not-a-valid-hostname-error-from-mxtoolbox

The free "MX plan" at OVH is limited to about 100 messages per hour. With our
playing around today this limit has been reached and they blocked the account.

The mail log says:

  to=<luc.saffre@gmx.net>, relay=ssl0.ovh.net[193.70.18.144]:587,
  status=deferred (SASL authentication failed; server ssl0.ovh.net[193.70.18.144] said: 535 5.7.1 Authentication failed)

It's relatively easy to unblock it by simply changing the password. Though that
means that we need to change the :xfile:`/etc/postfix/sasl_passwd` file on every server that
uses this account.  That's a disadvantage of using a relay host.

Rather than unlocking it I'd prefer to try once more the direct way of talking
to the SMTP servers.

How to change your hostname::

  $ sudo hostnamectl set-hostname laudate

But :cmd:`echo "body" | mail -s "some test" luc.saffre@gmx.net` does not seem to
understand the new hostname. It is still using the original hostname `hetz1`,
which I specified at creation and which we changed to `jane` last week.  Yes, I
can say ``-a "From:me@my.com"``, but where does the :cmd:`mail` command get the
default value for the ``From:`` header field?

http://mailutils.org/manual/html_node/configuration.html

I can say::

  $ mail --show-config-options | grep SYSCONFDIR
  SYSCONFDIR=/etc 	- System configuration directory

Which means that actually the config files are in :file:`/etc/main`. And one of
them, :file:`/etc/mail/local-host-names` contains my default ``From`` header.

:file:`/etc/mail/local-host-names`

::

  $ mail --config-lint
  mail: opening configuration file /etc/mailutils.conf
  mail: configuration file /etc/mailutils.conf doesn't exist
  mail: opening configuration file /home/luc/.mail
  mail: configuration file /home/luc/.mail doesn't exist


Also I cannot find how to disable the relay host.

:cmd:`sudo postconf -d | grep relayhost`

Jun 10 12:33:19 hetz1 postfix/smtp[16646]: A8CD040107:
to=<tonis.piip@gmail.com>, relay=ssl0.ovh.net[193.70.18.144]:587, delay=1.8,
delays=0.03/0.03/1.5/0.24, dsn=2.0.0, stat us=sent (250 2.0.0 Ok: queued as
404C2133B946F)



::

  Jun 10 15:50:13 localhost postfix/pickup[2096]: 5DE2A7D07: uid=1001 from=<luc@localhost>
  Jun 10 15:50:13 localhost postfix/cleanup[2124]: 5DE2A7D07: message-id=<20200610155013.5DE2A7D07@lino-framework.org>
  Jun 10 15:50:13 localhost postfix/qmgr[17652]: 5DE2A7D07: from=<luc@localhost.org>, size=334, nrcpt=1 (queue active)
  Jun 10 15:50:13 localhost postfix/smtp[2126]: 5DE2A7D07: to=<luc.saffre@gmx.net>, relay=mx00.emig.gmx.net[212.227.15.9]:25, delay=0.55, delays=0.05/0.05/0.26/0.19, dsn=5.0.0, status=bounced (host mx00.emig.gmx.net[212.227.15.9] said: 550-Requested action not taken: mailbox unavailable 550 Sender address has null MX (in reply to MAIL FROM command))
  Jun 10 15:50:13 localhost postfix/cleanup[2124]: E4AAEA46B: message-id=<20200610155013.E4AAEA46B@lino-framework.org>
  Jun 10 15:50:13 localhost postfix/qmgr[17652]: E4AAEA46B: from=<>, size=2350, nrcpt=1 (queue active)
  Jun 10 15:50:13 localhost postfix/bounce[2127]: 5DE2A7D07: sender non-delivery notification: E4AAEA46B
  Jun 10 15:50:13 localhost postfix/qmgr[17652]: 5DE2A7D07: removed
  Jun 10 15:50:14 localhost postfix/local[2128]: E4AAEA46B: to=<luc@localhost.org>, relay=local, delay=0.08, delays=0/0.05/0/0.02, dsn=2.0.0, status=sent (delivered to command: procmail -a "$EXTENSION")
  Jun 10 15:50:14 localhost postfix/qmgr[17652]: E4AAEA46B: removed



https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/how-to-configure-postfix-relayhost-smarthost-to-send-email-using-an-external-smptd/


Cannot query "Eleonora ...": Must be "Client" instance
======================================================

Tonis and I also had a look at :ticket:`3683` (Cannot query "Eleonora ...": Must
be "Client" instance.)

The problem is reproducible in a doctest snippet:

>>> import lino
>>> lino.startup('lino_book.projects.avanti1.settings')
>>> from lino.api.doctest import *
>>> u = rt.login('robin').get_user()
>>> qs = rt.models.uploads.Upload.objects.all()
>>> qs = qs.filter(project__coachings_by_client__user=u)
Traceback (most recent call last):
...
ValueError: Cannot query "Robin Rood": Must be "Client" instance.

Tonis observed that the problem "disappears" in the web client after the first
request. That is, when you invoke the same menu command a second time (within a
same runserver session), then the problem no longer occurs.

In our doctest the problem  does *not* disappear after the first request:

>>> qs = rt.models.uploads.Upload.objects.all()
>>> qs = qs.filter(project__coachings_by_client__user=u)

Which means that something else makes it disappear... mysterious!
