:date: 2020-07-15

========================
Wednesday, July 15, 2020
========================

Fixed several problems when building the book docs (:cmd:`inv clean -b bd`).

**WARNING: [autosummary] failed to import 'lino_avanti.lib.avanti.user_types': no module named lino_avanti.lib.avanti.user_types**

How to reproduce it::

  $ python -c "import lino; lino.startup('lino_book.projects.max.settings.doctests'); import lino_avanti.lib.avanti.user_types"

Explanation: The :mod:`lino_xl.lib.uploads` plugin didn't work when
:attr:`lino_xl.lib.clients.Plugin.client_model` was not a subclass of ClientBase. Because the `coached_by`
parameter field wasn't created at all. Now it gets created as a dummy field.

Also the memo parser refused to have a second renderer for a same model.  But
that's a legitimate thing happening when
:attr:`lino_xl.lib.clients.Plugin.client_model` was as its default value
`'contacts.Person'`: we then have two memo commands ``person`` and ``client``
both pointing to the same model.  Which is actually no problem. It just means
that the inverse mechanism (rendering a given database object as a memo command)
will yield one of them.


**ResourceWarning: unclosed file <_io.BufferedReader name='/home/luc/work/lino/lino/modlib/languages/fixtures/iso-639-3_20100707.tab'>**

--> Fixed some more causes for ResourceWarning, but then removed the line (in
:file:`lino/__init__.py`) that turns the warning into an error.

**intersphinx inventory has moved: http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/objects.inv -> https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/objects.inv**

--> Changed http to https for diverse intersphinx_urls


Configuring mailman lists for laudate
=====================================


Our first mailman 3 server at
https://lists.laudate.ee/postorius/lists/
was saying:

| Something went wrong
| Mailman REST API not available. Please start Mailman core.

In /etc/mailman/mailman.cfg I changed use_https from no to yes::

  # Whether or not requests to the web service are secured through SSL.
  use_https: yes

I read  `Mailman 3 Core REST API
<https://mailman.readthedocs.io/en/latest/src/mailman/rest/docs/rest.html>`__.

But that document tells me e.g. to run the "mailman info" command, and such a
command does not exist. Solution::

  $ cd /opt/mailman/venv
  $ . bin/activate

Hamza installed the `Mailman Suite <https://docs.mailman3.org/en/latest/>`__
into :file:`/opt/mailman`.


The :file:`/etc/nginx/sites-available/mailman.conf` defines the nginx site

The :file:`/etc/supervisor/conf.d/mailman.conf` defines the postorius django app

The :file:`/opt/mailman/mailman-suite/mailman-suite_project/uwsgi.ini`
  
