:date: 2020-07-27

=====================
Monday, July 27, 2020
=====================

Optimized the address data checker
===================================

Wow, this week end I went into the 18000 checkdata problem messages at weleup.
For historical reasons they have quite some differences between the partner
addresses and the individual address records.  That's why I started
:ticket:`3727`.  Our goal is to have Lino fix most of these data issues.  This
must be fool proof and well tested, because invalid data fixes would not turn
out until it's too late.

Added 150 lines of doctests in :class:`lino_xl.lib.addresses.AddressOwnerChecker`.

For the first time I wrote :term:`manual testing` instructions targeted to core
developers.  I plan to collect them in a single document, :ref:`team.mt`.

The min9 demo now also has phones and sepa plugins. The idea of this demo is to
have "all" plugins installed for testing purposes.


Advancing with the getlino test suite
=====================================

The getlino test suite did not yet cover the instructions for
:ref:`dev.install`.
I started by writing :ref:`getlino.using_docker`.
I found and fixed some bugs.

When I run :cmd:`inv test` on my machine, I see a series of warnings::

  /home/luc/virtualenvs/py3/lib/python3.6/_collections_abc.py:833:
  ResourceWarning: unclosed <socket.socket fd=9, family=AddressFamily.AF_UNIX,
  type=2049, proto=0, raddr=/var/run/docker.sock>

But I have no idea what is causing them.


Ha! After activating `stream=True`, I found the explanation for a problem that
had been a mystery to me for a while::

  mysql_secure_installation


  NOTE: RUNNING ALL PARTS OF THIS SCRIPT IS RECOMMENDED FOR ALL MariaDB
        SERVERS IN PRODUCTION USE!  PLEASE READ EACH STEP CAREFULLY!

  In order to log into MariaDB to secure it, we'll need the current
  password for the root user.  If you've just installed MariaDB, and
  you haven't set the root password yet, the password will be blank,
  so you should just press enter here.


  Enter current password for root (enter for none):
