:date: 2020-07-28

======================
Tuesday, July 28, 2020
======================

Worked on developer guide and getlino
=====================================

Ismail continues to get started and sends many error reports.

I reviewed the installation instructions for both developers and contributors
(:ref:`dev.install` and :ref:`contrib.install`).  I also started to review
:ref:`dev.translate`.

While doing so, I found several bugs in getlino that explain many of the
problems Ismail had.

For example the bug that caused the following problem::

    File "/.../lino_local/first/settings.py", line 16
      use_linod =
                 ^
  SyntaxError: invalid syntax

Another bug was that getlino startsite didn't set DEBUG to True on localhost
(which then caused error messages like "You may need to add '127.0.0.1' to
ALLOWED_HOSTS", missing SECRET_KEY etc.

These bugs will be fixed in the next getlino version.  I didn't yet release
getlino to PyPI because my work on the test suite isn't finished.


Inserting templates in TinyMCE doesn't work
===========================================

Steve reported :ticket:`3731`, a problem after the weleup1 release: Inserting
templates in TinyMCE doesn't work anymore. Apache answers to GET
http://hostname/static/tinymce-3.5.11/plugins/template/template.htm with 404.
And indeed, that file doesn't exist on their site. The reason is that
:file:`*.htm` was missing in the :xfile:`MANIFEST.in` of Lino.  I fixed it
manually by copying all :file:`*.htm` from the repository to their static
directory.
