:date: 2020-08-12

==========================
Wednesday, August 12, 2020
==========================

The insert window in Office --> Uploads had the fields type and file on the same
row, which doesn't render well in ExtJS (the type combo doesn't open).

The UploadsByController in presto now has a custom insert_layout which adds the
company field.

The insert_layout defined on uploads.UploadsByProject was the same as the one
defined on its parent uploads.UploadsByController. Removed duplicate code. This
saves one duplicate object in the generated JS.

Oops, the test i added yesterday for covering :ticket:`3745` caused side effects
in the test suite because it created a client.  And in min9 the problem was not
actually reproduced because min9 had no site_company (and therefore a new person
didn't have any address field, so Lino didn't even try to create an Address).
The test is now being done in  `min9.tests.test_addresses`.


Luc getting started with React
==============================


I worked on :ticket:`3709` (Luc getting started with React).
My goal is to have a comprehensible documentation in `react.guide`.

I merged a pull request introduced by a user g4ndy. Nice surprise : this fixed
my problem with the missing glyphs for the primereact fonts.

I am testing it in the cms demo project::

  $ go cms
  $ pm runserver

The first screen now displays correctly. But when I try to sign in, it gets
blank and the JS console reports::

  TypeError: c.DomHandler is undefined




Adapt Lino to work with Django 3.1
==================================

I opened :ticket:`3748`.

https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/releases/3.1/

First problem is this::

  ImportError: cannot import name 'FieldDoesNotExist'

That was because the compatibility import of
django.core.exceptions.FieldDoesNotExist in django.db.models.fields is removed.

.. `Django REST framework <https://www.django-rest-framework.org/>`__ seems to not
  have fixed the issue as well.  Wrong. Seems that this was because I said "pip install -U django_rest_framework" instead of "pip install -U djangorestframework".
  https://github.com/encode/django-rest-framework/issues/7459

A more difficult problem was this::

  TypeError: related_objects() missing 1 required positional argument: 'objs'


.. currentmodule:: lino.utils.mti

This was in :mod:`lino.utils.mti`.
The :func:`delete_child` function used a :class:`ChildCollector` until now.
It is dangerous code.
Remember the killer bug some years ago.
But I trust that the test suite covers these things quite well.

A last problem was in the welfare test suite
(:file:`docs/specs/dupable_clients.rst`).  The sort order of the two Dorothées
is changed.  The query has always been sorted by `['-num', 'pk']`.
I did not find any explanation for it, but I now assume that it is
irrelevant for us.
