:date: 2020-08-13

=========================
Thursday, August 13, 2020
=========================

Lino React front end
====================

I committed and pushed miscellaneous changes in the :ref:`react` repo.

I had a session with Tonis where I learned a lot about how to develop
:mod:`lino_react`. We fixed the "TypeError: c.DomHandler is undefined" problem.

- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36795819/when-should-i-use-curly-braces-for-es6-import

- https://www.sitepoint.com/understanding-module-exports-exports-node-js/

Next steps planned: try to get rid of our primereact fork.


Mailman3 on laudate
===================

I tried :cmd:`sudo apt install mainman3-full`.
Before this I moved two config files to :file:`/opt/mailman-opt-files`::

  /etc/nginx/sites-available/mailman.conf
  /etc/supervisor/conf.d/mailman.conf

It asked questions like these:

- Configure database for mailman3 with dbconfig-common?  Yes

- Database type to be used by mailman3: sqlite3

But in the end it said: The service for mailman3 failed! The mailman3 service
didn't start correctly. This is probably because you didn't configure the
database appropriately. The service won't work until you do so. If you actually
DID install the database appropriately, please report the bug to the maintainers
of the mailman3 package.

So mailman3 doesn't yet seem to work out of the box.
I continued with our manual installation.
Continued from :doc:`0715`.

I created my own script for mailman::

  # LS 20200813
  # activate mailman venv
  . /opt/mailman/venv/bin/activate
  sudo env PATH=$PATH mailman $*

So now it works::

  $ mailman info
  GNU Mailman 3.3.1 (Tom Sawyer)
  Python 3.7.3 (default, Dec 20 2019, 18:57:59)
  [GCC 8.3.0]
  config file: /etc/mailman3/mailman.cfg
  db url: sqlite:////var/lib/mailman3/data/mailman.db
  devmode: DISABLED
  REST root url: http://localhost:8001/3.1/
  REST credentials: restadmin:****

I continued to read `Mailman 3 Core REST API
<https://mailman.readthedocs.io/en/latest/src/mailman/rest/docs/rest.html>`__.

My problem atm is that https://lists.laudate.ee gives an error message
"Something went wrong. Mailman REST API not available. Please start Mailman
core."  Okay, something went wrong... but what exactly?

The application running behind lists.laudate.ee is the so-called mailman suite,
a combination of postorious and webkitty.  It is defined in
/opt/mailman/mailman-suite/mailman-suite_project

Here is the log file::

  $ cd /opt/mailman/mailman-suite/mailman-suite_project
  $ less logs/mailmansuite.log

It says::

  mailmanclient.restbase.connection.MailmanConnectionError:
  ('Could not connect to Mailman API: ', 'ConnectionError(MaxRetryError("HTTPConnectionPool(
  host=\'localhost\', port=8001):
  Max retries exceeded with url: /3.1/lists?advertised=true&count=0&page=1
  (Caused by NewConnectionError(\'<urllib3.connection.HTTPConnection object
  at 0x7f439f159cc0>: Failed to establish a new connection: [Errno 111]
  Connection refused\'))"))')

Ha! But here::

  $ sudo service mailman3 restart
  Failed to restart mailman3.service: Unit mailman3.service is masked.

Why is the service masked? I guess that it is to protect me from having the
service running before I fully understood how to configure it.

If that's true, I guess that some documentation about how to unmask the service
is missing in https://docs.mailman3.org/en/latest/config-core.html

I installed whoosh and pymysql::

  $ cd /opt/mailman/mailman-suite/mailman-suite_project
  $ ln -s /opt/mailman/venv env
  $ a
  $ pip install whoosh
  $ pip install pymysql  # TODO: what's this?
  $ pip install mysqlclient

I created a mysql user and database for mailman::

  $ sudo mysql -u root
  MariaDB [(none)]> create user 'mailman'@'localhost' identified by 'my cool mailman password';
  MariaDB [(none)]> create database mailman;
  MariaDB [(none)]> grant all on mailman.* to mailman@localhost with grant option;


Updated the ``[database]`` section in :file:`/etc/mailman3/mailman.cfg`.


Now I can start the mailman service::

  $ mailman start
  Starting Mailman's master runner
  Generating MTA alias maps


Things start working. I could cre4ate a few lists. But I seem to have a postfix
configuration problem because when I now send an email to test@laudate.ee (which
is a valid list with two members), postfix doesn't even let it in.
