:date: 2020-08-17

=======================
Monday, August 17, 2020
=======================

Certbot and the subdomains
==========================

There were again https warnings for laudate. We have two different certificates
for laudate.ee and www.laudate.ee. Is that normal? Seems that something is
messed up.

We have nginx listening at www.laudate.ee and laudate.ee (both domains share the
same content). Here is the summarized config file::

  server {
      server_name laudate.ee www.laudate.ee;
      ...
      listen 443 ssl; # managed by Certbot
      ssl_certificate /etc/letsencrypt/live/www.laudate.ee/fullchain.pem; # managed by Certbot
      ...
  }

  server {
      server_name laudate.ee www.laudate.ee;
      listen 80;

      if ($host = www.laudate.ee) {
          return 301 https://$host$request_uri;
      } # managed by Certbot

      if ($host = laudate.ee) {
          return 301 https://$host$request_uri;
      } # managed by Certbot

      return 404; # managed by Certbot
  }

I say::

  $ certbot-auto -d laudate.ee -d www.laudate.ee
  ...
  Your existing certificate has been successfully renewed, and the new certificate
  has been installed.
  The new certificate covers the following domains: https://laudate.ee and
  https://www.laudate.ee

 - Congratulations! Your certificate and chain have been saved at:
   /etc/letsencrypt/live/laudate.ee/fullchain.pem
   Your key file has been saved at:
   /etc/letsencrypt/live/laudate.ee/privkey.pem
   Your cert will expire on 2020-11-15. To obtain a new or tweaked
   version of this certificate in the future, simply run certbot-auto
   again with the "certonly" option. To non-interactively renew *all*
   of your certificates, run "certbot-auto renew"

I removed the certificate files for `www.laudate.ee`.
But the additional domain name was still there::

  $ certbot-auto
  Requesting to rerun /usr/local/bin/certbot-auto with root privileges...
  Saving debug log to /var/log/letsencrypt/letsencrypt.log
  Plugins selected: Authenticator nginx, Installer nginx

  Which names would you like to activate HTTPS for?
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
  1: laudate.ee
  2: lists.laudate.ee
  3: www.laudate.ee
  4: ejane.mylino.net
  5: jane.mylino.net
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
  Select the appropriate numbers separated by commas and/or spaces, or leave input
  blank to select all options shown (Enter 'c' to cancel): c

I had to read  `the manual
<https://certbot.eff.org/docs/using.html#where-are-my-certificates>`__ and
discover the certificates command.  This revealed that I had erroneously given
the following command when adding the certificate for the mailman3 interface::

  $ certbot-auto -d lists.laudate.ee -d www.laudate.ee

That was wrong. It must be::

  $ certbot-auto -d lists.laudate.ee

Done.


How to install mailman3
=======================

https://www.gnu.org/software/mailman/devs.html : Mailman 3 is under active
development and we would welcome your input and contributions. The primary
gathering point for all development should be the Mailman Wiki and specifically
the Development home space on the wiki. Because wikis are intended to be
collaborative, you're free to contribute to this page in true wiki fashion.

https://wiki.list.org/DEV/Home : Thank you for contributing to Mailman! Please
also see the Mailman 3 release notes. NEW! This year we will be applying to
Google's Season of Docs. For information about Mailman's project ideas, click
here: Mailman Season of Docs 2019.

Looks great. But I still can't edit neither the Home page nor Brian's page about
`How to Install Mailman 3 on a Debian 10 Server
<https://wiki.list.org/DOC/Howto_Install_Mailman3_On_Debian10>`__. Maybe that's
because I registered only yesterday as a user.

I started writing installation notes in :ref:`admin.mailman`.

TODO: Get more contact with mailman developers. Should I integrate my docs about
mailman to their wiki?
