:date: 2020-08-23

=======================
Sunday, August 23, 2020
=======================

Performance on sites with nginx
===============================

With Apache it was okay to have 10 Lino sites on a same server with 2 GB of RAM
and one core. With nginx it seems very slow. Is there something wrong in our
:xfile:`uwsgi.ini` files?

https://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tutorials/Django_and_nginx.html

We have 5 supervisor tasks running on this server::

  $ sudo supervisorctl status
  ejane-uwsgi                      RUNNING   pid 29808, uptime 0:14:17
  jane-uwsgi                       RUNNING   pid 29810, uptime 0:14:17
  libreoffice                      RUNNING   pid 29807, uptime 0:14:17
  linod-jane                       RUNNING   pid 29809, uptime 0:14:17
  mailman-uwsgi                    RUNNING   pid 29806, uptime 0:14:17

NB supervisor task linod-jane was not running because it had a newline at the
beginning of the file. Fixed.

The free command reports only 200 MB of freed memory after restarting
supervisor. Here is the output before and after::

  $ free -h
                total        used        free      shared  buff/cache   available
  Mem:          1,9Gi       1,7Gi        67Mi        23Mi        94Mi        29Mi
  Swap:            0B          0B          0B

  $ free -h
                total        used        free      shared  buff/cache   available
  Mem:          1,9Gi       1,5Gi       135Mi        23Mi       259Mi       217Mi
  Swap:            0B          0B          0B

But these 200 MB might make a big difference when 1.5 of 1.9 GB are being used
all the time.

:cmd:`ps -o pid,user,%mem,command ax | sort -b -k3 -r` shows that there are
indeed 10 processes for each Lino site, and each of them uses 6% of the total
available memory. The mailman suite is more polite: only two processes, and each
of them uses 2.5 and 1.8 % of available memory.

I changed the :xfile:`uwsgi.ini` files for jane and ejane as follows::

  processes = 2 (instead of 10)
  # buffer-size 10000  (commented this out)

The processes themselves didn't get smaller, but having 4 of them instead of 20
is a big gain.  Jane on LF is very quick at the moment, quicker than Hobbit was
on SR.  But I just did a supervisor restart, so this needs to be observed.

I also replaced pidfile by safe-pidfile ater reading `this
<https://github.com/unbit/uwsgi-docs/issues/281>`__.

I also did these changes in the :xfile:`uwsgi.ini` template for :cmd:`getlino
startsite`.


I also wondered whether maybe somebody is heavily stressing our server. I
installed :cmd:`iftop` after reading `this
<https://linuxtechlab.com/top-7-commands-for-linux-network-traffic-monitoring/>`__.
iftop shows that mail.laudate.ee quite busy, getting several requests per
second.  But that doesn't seem to be a big problem.

I ran :cmd:`apt autoremove` because apt advised me so. autoremove gave these
warnings::

  dpkg: warning: while removing fonts-font-awesome, directory '/usr/share/fonts/woff/font-awesome' not empty so not removed
  dpkg: warning: while removing fonts-font-awesome, directory '/usr/share/fonts/truetype/font-awesome' not empty so not removed
  dpkg: warning: while removing fonts-font-awesome, directory '/usr/share/fonts/svg/font-awesome' not empty so not removed
  dpkg: warning: while removing fonts-font-awesome, directory '/usr/share/fonts/opentype/font-awesome' not empty so not removed
  dpkg: warning: while removing fonts-font-awesome, directory '/usr/share/fonts/eot/font-awesome' not empty so not removed
