:date: 2020-08-25

========================
Tuesday, August 25, 2020
========================

I fixed :ticket:`3765` and did some changes in :ref:`hosting.backup`  and
:ref:`hosting.mirror`.

I tried the `insipid
<https://insipid-sphinx-theme.readthedocs.io/en/0.1.1/>`__ Sphinx theme. Looks
even nicer than RTD.
I switched the :ref:`hw` to it.


'NoneType' object has no attribute 'get_layout_handle'
======================================================

.. currentmodule:: lino.modlib.users

I fixed :ticket:`3766`. This was a quite blocking bug: it was not possible to
edit any combobox field in the :guilabel:`My Settings` form. The issue occurred
only here because :class:`Users` is abstract and nevertheless has parameters
defined. I added test cases to cover this in :ref:`specs.users` and
:ref:`welfare.specs.reception`.

There is an internal rule that when `parameters` is None, `params_layout` is
also `None` and no functionality related to parameters is used. This rule was
not satisfied here. It is not satisfied because :class:`Users` is abstract.
Interesting to note that the Ajax call requests ``/Users/``, not ``/AllUsers/``
or ``/MySettings/`` or some other non-abstract table name. That's because none
of the non-abstract subclasses of :class:`Users` adds anything to the question
"which choices do we have for field :attr:`User.coaching_type`?". That's why all
fields use the same Ajax call. The problem occurred also for
:attr:`User.partner` or :attr:`User.user_type`.


>>> from lino import startup
>>> startup('lino_welfare.projects.gerd.settings.doctests')
>>> from lino.api.doctest import *

>>> lh = users.AllUsers.get_detail_layout()
>>> lh.layout._datasource
lino.modlib.users.desktop.Users
>>> lh.get_data_elem('coaching_type')
<django.db.models.fields.related.ForeignKey: coaching_type>

>>> show_choices('romain', '/choices/users/Users/coaching_type')
<br/>
SSG
SI
Médiation de dettes

Internal side effect: Lino now supports action requests on an abstract actor.
Such requests are of course limited, but we need them e.g. in above case.

I did not remove the exception "has a params_layout but no parameters" e.g.
ledger.ByJournal is just a mixin but provides a default value for its children

Note also the special case :class:`lino_xl.lib.accounting.ByJournal`. This is a
table mixin. It is not explicitly marked as abstract by the application
developer. That's okay because a data table is automatically considered abstract
when it has no model.


Make Lino applications use Django the user model
================================================

Until now I was still assuming that "Django's approach provides no means for
defining instance-specific permissions."  I now saw that this is no longer true.
So think once more about whether we should support Lino applications that use
the standard :mod:`django.contrib.auth` plugin instead of
:mod:`lino.modlib.users`. The main obstacle is the fundamentally different
permission system.  But there is a solution for it. Probably even several
solutions. One of them would be to add an attribute
:attr:`lino.core.actions.Action.required_permissions` and to have the
:fixture:`std` fixture generate one Django user group for each :term:`user type`
in Lino.

I reviewed :ref:`about.auth`.
