:date: 2020-10-03

=========================
Saturday, October 3, 2020
=========================

I installed
`react devtools for Firefox
<https://reactjs.org/blog/2015/09/02/new-react-developer-tools.html#installation>`__

I read https://reactjs.org/tutorial/tutorial.html

Aris and I had our first meeting on Jitsi.

With Aris I created a new react app as
`described here
<https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html>`__.

To install `primereact`, in addition to saying `npm install primereact`
I had to say `npm install classnames`
and `npm install react-transition-group`,
as `described here
<https://primefaces.org/primereact/showcase/#/setup>`__.

We tried to get the `Dropdown
<https://www.primefaces.org/primereact/showcase/#/dropdown>`__ components to
work again.

I learned about
`React.Component.shouldComponentUpdate()
<https://reactjs.org/docs/react-component.html#shouldcomponentupdate>`__.

I started the lino_fuori package (lated renamed to :ref:`mentori`).

Two main types of "activities" are "Internships" and "Seminars".
These are defined in :class:`ActivityLayouts`.

The :mod:`lino_xl.lib.courses` plugin no longer requires the
:mod:`lino_l.lib.cal` plugin. Fuori is the first application that has courses
and enrolments, but doesn't care about calendar entries.  Basic step was to
remove the following line in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.courses`::

  needs_plugins = ['lino_xl.lib.cal']

And then several ``if cal is not None`` (i.e. the courses plugin now takes care
of using cal only when it is installed).

The :cmd:`inv bd` command in atelier was still using
:mod:`atelier.doctest_utf8`::

  # DOCTEST_CMD = "atelier.doctest_utf8"
  DOCTEST_CMD = "doctest"


Some adaptations to "recommended" practice in the :ref:`algus` project:

- demo projects of an application foo are named foo1, foo2 etc
- The application's "standard settings" are now in the file :file:`lino_foo/lib/foo/settings.py` file was
