:date: 2020-10-15

==========================
Thursday, October 15, 2020
==========================

Debit and credit
================

Tickets :ticket:`1985` is not yet fully done. Debtors and Creditors in welfare
now have 0 and 15 rows instead of 5 and 10 rows. Maybe we need to adapt these
two lists: maybe when using cascaded clearing we must say more precisely what a
"debitor" and "creditor" means. We must somehow be able to say that we want only
certain type of credit.

An AAW does the following:
- credits 4450 (Disbursement orders to execute)
- debits 832/330/01 (Allgemeine Beihilfen)

Or maybe the problem is simply that both movements are booked to the partner.
The debit movement into the costs account (832/330/01) should not have
:attr:`partner` set because the cost account does not require clearing.

None of the monthly AAW movements is cleared by a ZKBC. Maybe because the
booking dates are wrong? I fiddled for more than an hour but could not find a
definitive explanation. To be continued when a customer shows interest.



Mentori test suite and docs
===========================

I noticed that :cmd:`inv test` and :cmd:`inv bd` were failing in :ref:`mentori`.

And a great news: the docs for :ref:`mentori` are now online:

  https://lino-framework.gitlab.io/mentori/

Note that the content of these docs is not yet very impressive. The great thing
is that for the first time in history, Lino has a doctree hosted directly using
`GitLab pages <https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/pages/>`__.
