:date: 2020-10-19

========================
Monday, October 19, 2020
========================

I fixed miscellaneous issues found in :ref:`algus` after using it for
:ref:`mentori`.

I updated some parts of the book, e.g. :ref:`dev.myapp`.

"num2words not installed"
=========================

Ta-daa! The mentori pipeline on gitlab passed! For the first time.

https://gitlab.com/lino-framework/mentori/-/pipelines/204606848

The issues
were trivial, but after years on :ref:`travis` I still have to learn how the
gory details work on GitLab.

A first issue was because in the :xfile:`.gitlab-ci.yml` file I asked to cache
the pip cache and the venv. It was always using lino-xl version 20.8 instead of
20.10

After removing the cache, I had yet another series of failures like these::

  **********************************************************************
  File "/builds/lino-framework/mentori/docs/specs/courses.rst", line 15, in courses.rst
  Failed example:
      lino.startup('lino_mentori.projects.mentori1.settings.doctests')
  Expected nothing
  Got:
      num2words not installed, use `python manage.py install` to install
  **********************************************************************

Yes, :mod:`lino_xl.lib.courses` imports :class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.EventGenerator`
from the :mod:`lino_xl.lib.cal` mixins in order to say that a course is a
calendar event generator.  It is perfectly okay to do this even when cal is not
installed. When cal is not installed, the mixin simply has no effect. But until
now it did have the side effect of printing this message.

Failures in getlino
===================

The getlino test suite filed with::

  ERROR: Could not install packages due to an EnvironmentError:
  HTTPSConnectionPool(host='files.pythonhosted.org', port=443): Max retries
  exceeded with url:
  /packages/ca/08/7c31e275777352db243b4d857de61d412f4a1300cda9bf9a7f0da20af852/appy-1.0.3.tar.gz
  (Caused by
  ReadTimeoutError("HTTPSConnectionPool(host='files.pythonhosted.org',
  port=443): Read timed out. (read timeout=15)"))

But when I run it manually, it works::

  $ virtualenv -p python3 tt
  $ . tt/bin/activate
  (tt) luc@tups:~/tmp$ pip install appy
  Collecting appy
    Downloading appy-1.0.3.tar.gz (5.1 MB)
       |████████████████████████████████| 5.1 MB 243 kB/s
  Collecting zodb
  ...
  Successfully built appy
  ...



The getlino test suite is currently failing on my machine::

  $ inv prep test
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Run main prep command ./prep.sh :
  Sending build context to Docker daemon  15.88MB
  Step 1/17 : ARG DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive
  Step 2/17 : FROM debian:buster
   ---> ae8514941ea4
  Step 3/17 : ENV TERM=linux
   ---> Using cache
   ---> 3117ecf1c8b0
  Step 4/17 : ENV PYTHONUNBUFFERED=1
   ---> Using cache
   ---> a71874e43c4a
  Step 5/17 : ENV LC_ALL=en_US.UTF-8
   ---> Using cache
   ---> c5ce60691598
  Step 6/17 : ENV LANG=en_US.UTF-8
   ---> Using cache
   ---> 84e4843b22de
  Step 7/17 : ENV TZ=Europe/Brussels
   ---> Using cache
   ---> 6e1ba4433a49
  Step 8/17 : RUN apt-get update -yqq
   ---> Using cache
   ---> 4de583ad6fdb
  Step 9/17 : RUN apt-get install -y tzdata locales-all
   ---> Using cache
   ---> 245b8fa3c094
  Step 10/17 : RUN apt-get upgrade -y
   ---> Running in c0f791e1584b
  Reading package lists...
  Building dependency tree...
  Reading state information...
  Calculating upgrade...
  The following packages will be upgraded:
    base-files libgnutls30 perl-base
  3 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
  Need to get 2,708 kB of archives.
  After this operation, 16.4 kB of additional disk space will be used.
  Err:1 http://deb.debian.org/debian buster/main amd64 base-files amd64 10.3+deb10u5
    404  Not Found [IP: 151.101.86.133 80]
  Get:2 http://deb.debian.org/debian buster/main amd64 perl-base amd64 5.28.1-6+deb10u1 [1,514 kB]
  Get:3 http://deb.debian.org/debian buster/main amd64 libgnutls30 amd64 3.6.7-4+deb10u5 [1,124 kB]
  E: Failed to fetch http://deb.debian.org/debian/pool/main/b/base-files/base-files_10.3+deb10u5_amd64.deb  404  Not Found [IP: 151.101.86.133 80]
  E: Unable to fetch some archives, maybe run apt-get update or try with --fix-missing?
  Fetched 2,638 kB in 2s (1,176 kB/s)
  The command '/bin/sh -c apt-get upgrade -y' returned a non-zero code: 100

Explanation was this::

  Step 8/17 : RUN apt-get update -yqq
   ---> Using cache
   ---> 4de583ad6fdb

Instead of actually updating, it used a cached version. It started to work after
changing ``apt-get update -yqq`` to ``apt-get update -y``, but of course just
because this invalidated because the RUN command was changed.


Lino Voga
=========

I had a meeting with Arnold where we discovered :ticket:`3829`.  The roger demo
project had no presences (guests) because :attr:`SiteConfig.pupil_guestrole`
wasn't being set.

Fixing this revealed another subtle issue: In Voga we can have multiple
enrolments of a same pupil to a same course. In reality there is of course only
one active enrolment per pupil per course at any given date. A same pupil can
join a course, leave after some time, and then join again. The demo fixture
creates duplicate enrolments whose date range overlaps. Which should be detected
by a data checker. But I didn't yet write such a checker because the problem is
only theoretic. But to avoid to also get duplicate *guests* (which causes a
database integrity error), Voga now avoids duplicate guests when having
overlapping enrolments.
