:date: 2020-10-26

========================
Monday, October 26, 2020
========================

We received the following message::

  Hello,

  Your certificate (or certificates) for the names listed below will expire in 20 days (on 08 Nov 20 18:49 +0000). Please make sure to renew your certificate before then, or visitors to your website will encounter errors.

  We recommend renewing certificates automatically when they have a third of their
  total lifetime left. For Let's Encrypt's current 90-day certificates, that means
  renewing 30 days before expiration. See
  https://letsencrypt.org/docs/integration-guide/ for details.

  lists.laudate.ee
  www.laudate.ee

  For any questions or support, please visit https://community.letsencrypt.org/. Unfortunately, we can't provide support by email.

  For details about when we send these emails, please visit https://letsencrypt.org/docs/expiration-emails/. In particular, note that this reminder email is still sent if you've obtained a slightly different certificate by adding or removing names. If you've replaced this certificate with a newer one that covers more or fewer names than the list above, you may be able to ignore this message.

  If you are receiving this email in error, unsubscribe at http://mandrillapp.com/track/unsub.php?u=30850198&id=48b230ed62ef4d4a89eda432d9a4259a.IXpg6KZCL1bZ4JeancyYNQgvV8Y%3D&r=https%3A%2F%2Fmandrillapp.com%2Funsub%3Fmd_email%3Dp%252A%252A%252A%252A%2540l%252A%252A%252A%252A.%252A%252A%252A

  Regards,
  The Let's Encrypt Team

This is because at some moment we requested a certificate covering those two
domains. The certbot server worries because this certificate hasn't been
renewed. This is usually caused by a certificate that we requested some time ago
but don't use any more.

And indeed, laudate.ee we had these two messy certificates::

  Certificate Name: lists.laudate.ee-0001
    Serial Number: 32fb6c0c2175f07bdf0cd3645ee8726ba42
    Domains: lists.laudate.ee
    Expiry Date: 2020-11-15 03:16:22+00:00 (VALID: 19 days)
    Certificate Path: /etc/letsencrypt/live/lists.laudate.ee-0001/fullchain.pem
    Private Key Path: /etc/letsencrypt/live/lists.laudate.ee-0001/privkey.pem
  Certificate Name: lists.laudate.ee
    Serial Number: 467fe5acafafcfed866554c353c5126404a
    Domains: lists.laudate.ee www.laudate.ee
    Expiry Date: 2020-11-08 18:49:18+00:00 (VALID: 13 days)
    Certificate Path: /etc/letsencrypt/live/lists.laudate.ee/fullchain.pem
    Private Key Path: /etc/letsencrypt/live/lists.laudate.ee/privkey.pem

The second certificate is not being used, and it is about the same two domains
mentioned in our warning.

  (master) luc@laudate:~$ grep lists.laudate.ee /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/*
  /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/lists.conf:    server_name lists.laudate.ee;
  /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/lists.conf:    ssl_certificate /etc/letsencrypt/live/lists.laudate.ee-0001/fullchain.pem; # managed by Certbot
  /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/lists.conf:    ssl_certificate_key /etc/letsencrypt/live/lists.laudate.ee-0001/privkey.pem; # managed by Certbot
  /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/lists.conf:    if ($host = lists.laudate.ee) {
  /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/lists.conf:    server_name lists.laudate.ee;

There is another certificate `lists.laudate.ee-0001` which covers the lists
subdomain. We removed an unused certificate on laudate.ee::

  $ certbot-auto delete --cert-name lists.laudate.ee

It is a pity that the certbot warning does not give a unique id of the
certificate.  The only way to see whether their warning notice matches an
existing certificate is to search for candidates.

And I guess that `certbot delete` command does not automatically notify the
certbot server that they can delete this certificate. In other words they will
bother us again about this certificate, maybe next week, and we will again spend
some time to find out that we can ignore it.  But ok, I also don't see right now
whether and how they would manage all use cases.

Another thing is: how can we tell certbot to notify also Hannes about
certificate expirations?  Answer: add hannes to postmaster.  The default mail
address on the acme server is `postmaster@example.com`.
