:date: 2020-11-02

========================
Monday, November 2, 2020
========================

Today I discovered the OpenGraph protocol, a standard used by Facebook to give
meta information when sharing a web link. The `OpenGraph website
<https://ogp.me>`__ says that it "is currently being consumed by Facebook,
Google, and mixi", but the link under Google is broken and I didn't yet find any
confirmation that it is being used outside of the Facebook imperium.

It makes sense to learn this standard when you want to share news into Facebook.
When I share a link on Facebook, the FB scraper includes the first image it
finds on my web page.  I can optimize these things.

Facebook's "scraper debuggr tool" helps with understanding how they perceive the
world and my website:

https://developers.facebook.com/tools/debug


For example I would like to specify an explicit image url to be used when
sharing a blog post.

Does Sphinx support OpenGraph?
Is it possible to specify more metadata entries in the html header?

The docs (under `Meta-information markup
<https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/directives.html#meta-information-markup>`__)
only mention two directives :rst:dir:`sectionauthor` and :rst:dir:`codeauthor`.

docutils as a built-in `meta
<https://docutils.readthedocs.io/en/sphinx-docs/ref/rst/directives.html#meta>`__
directive, which we can use to specify OpenGraph tags.  The syntax is a bit
special::

  .. meta::
     :property="og:image": https://www.example.com/_images/foo.jpg
     :property="og:image:width": 1123
     :property="og:image:height": 794
     :property="og:type": article

Specifying the width and height is optional since FB analyzes itself the image
when they are not given.

But FB has the following limitation: You should use a 1.91:1 image ratio, such
as 600x314px.
