:date: 2020-11-06

========================
Friday, November 6, 2020
========================

Ismail getting started
======================

Ismail is working on a problem in :ref:`openui5`: The menu items don't work,
they display correctly, but when you click on one of them, nothing happens. And
the JS console says::

  Uncaught DOMException: String contains an invalid character

He found that the problem is somewhere in file
:file:`config/openui5/controller/App.controller.js`::

        handleMenuItemPress: function (oEvent) {
            var oButton = oEvent.getSource();
            var actor_id = oButton.data('actor_id');
            var action_name = oButton.data('action_name');
            var compressed_eval_js = oButton.data('eval_js');
            var s = atob(compressed_eval_js);
            var data = new Array(s.length);
            var i;
            for (i = 0; i < s.length; ++i) {
                data[i] = s.charCodeAt(i);
            }

            var inflate = new Zlib.Inflate(data);
            var decompress = inflate.decompress();
            var eval_js = new TextDecoder("utf-8").decode(decompress);

            var msg = "'" + oEvent.getParameter("item").getText() + actor_id + ":" + action_name + "' pressed";
            MessageToast.show(msg);
            eval(eval_js);
            // this.routeTo(action_name, actor_id);

Two remarks:

- In order to understand the problem, you need to see what's in the
  `compressed_eval_js` variable.

- The error message "Uncaught DOMException: String contains an invalid
  character" also comes when you open a table using a quick link (where it
  works).  So this might not be the real problem at all.


Change in generated XML file
============================

I am upgrading the :xfile:`IMP2PAIN.XML` file used by a TIM customer from
version 2 to version 3 because they want to use a new feature: instant payments
without additional costs.

I upgraded the XSD file used by :mod:`etgen.sepa.validate`, then started a
testing sequence: print a payment order in TIM to generate an xml file from the
updated :xfile:`IMP2PAIN.XML` file, then validate that xml file.

First error:
The root element is no longer named `<pain.001.001.02>` (nor `<pain.001.001.03>`
as I had expected), but  `<CstmrCdtTrfInitn>`.

Next error::

  lxml.etree.DocumentInvalid: Element '{urn:iso:std:iso:20022:tech:xsd:pain.001.001.03}Grpg': This element is not expected. Expected is one of ( {urn:iso:std:iso:20022:tech:xsd:pain.001.001.03}CtrlSum, {urn:iso:std:iso:20022:tech:xsd:pain.001.001.03}InitgPty )., line 8

Yes, version 2 had the following fragment::

  <NbOfTxs>...</NbOfTxs>
  <Grpg>MIXD</Grpg>
  <InitgPty>
  ...

Indeed the docs no longer talk about `<Grpg>`. What did it mean?   Maybe it was
about how to share the bank costs. Which is now done using `<ChrgBr>`.  But I am
not sure. And anyway the `<ChrgBr>` element is not mandatory and seems to have
reasonable default values. So I removed the `<Grpg>` element.

Next error::

        <Id><OrgId><PrtryId>
            <Id>[=strtran(substr(MemNoTva,4),".","")]</Id>
            <Issr>KBO-BCE</Issr>
        </PrtryId></OrgId></Id>

I guess that `<PrtryId>`  has been renamed to `<Othr>`. Occurred twice in the
source file.

Next problem:

  lxml.etree.DocumentInvalid: Element '{urn:iso:std:iso:20022:tech:xsd:pain.001.001.03}Ctry': This element is not expected., line 35

Seems that `<Ctry>` must now come before `<AdrLine>` in `<PstlAdr>`.
