:date: 2020-11-19

===========================
Thursday, November 19, 2020
===========================

Editable ESF fields
===================

I started working on :ticket:`3581`.

We add a new boolean field :attr:`ClientSummary.user_modified`  and want Lino to
automatically set this field to `True` whenever a statistical field gets
manually edited by an :term:`end user`. Since there are many statistical fields,
we don't want to define a :meth:`Model.FOO_changed` method on the model for each
of them. This is a use case for a custom :meth:`before_ui_save
<lino.core.model.Model.before_ui_save>` method.

But we need a little optimization in the Lino core: the :meth:`before_ui_save
<lino.core.model.Model.before_ui_save>` method now receives a second positional
argument `cw` : the change watcher, or `None`.


Step 4 of the LETS tutorial
===========================

The :ref:`dev.lets.step4` page of the  LETS tutorial (:ref:`lino.tutorial.lets`)
caused a test failure when my copy of the lets repository was not at step4
branch.  Ideed it is --by design-- not a good idea to have doctests on this
page. That's why I moved these doctests to the specs in the `lets` tutorial.
Also reviewed this page to provide more useful explanations. I discovered
Sphinx's `diff` highlight mode.  The diff chunks render beautifully and a good
for explaining, but they contain lines that start with ">>>" and which are not
meant to be tested by doctest. That's why the book repository now uses the
`exclude` keyword argument of :meth:`atelier.test.make_docs_suite` to exempt
this file from being tested.
