:date: 2020-11-25

============================
Wednesday, November 25, 2020
============================

Some optimizations:

Fixed a bug in get_title_tags that caused a text "Reply to <BLANK>" to appear.

Fixed a bug that caused e.g. CommentsByMentioned to have an insert button
despite the fact that it sets insert_layout to None or editable to False.

I plan to discontinue the cards display mode that had been implemented by Tonis.
This is an "intuitive" design decision because the topic is complex. For example
cards work only with react and not in extjs.  Unlike Tonis I believe that
formatting of table summaries should be done on the server, not on the client.

I considered but did not yet do the following:

  The body text of every comment is already stored as html, it actually makes no
  sense to parse them into etree elements just to render them as strings.

  Seems that unfortunately ElementTree does not have a mean to add a raw html
  "element" as a child to another element (without parsing it).

  One way to fix this would be to say that  summary_row must return a series of
  strings containing escaped html, not a sequence of etree elements. Same for
  methods obj2html obj2href and href_to. We would then also rename `summary_row`
  to `get_summary_chunks` because it yields a series of html chunks to be glued
  together into a single <p> or <li> or <td> element.

  But if we do this, we need a clear convention about when escaping happens. In
  order to avoid double escaping.

Another idea that would avoid writing :meth:`get_dashboard_items` for most
applications::

  Actor.use_in_dashboard = None | 'v' | 'h'

- None: Don't define a dashboard item
- 'v' define a dashboard item that's visible by default
- 'h' define a dashboard item that's hidden by default
