:date: 2020-12-07

========================
Monday, December 7, 2020
========================

Summary of my code changes this weekend for :ticket:`3850`.

The detail of a ticket is now more mobile friendly.  Comments have a new field
:attr:`emotion <lino.modlib.comments.Comment.emotion>`. When writing a comment,
you do this now by clicking on one of the available emotions.
The :class:`comments.CommentsByRFC` and :class:`comments.RepliesByComment` slave
tables now use again the old summary view instead of the card view.

These changes caused a change in the "summary API":

:func:`qs2summary <lino.utils.qs2summary>` no longer returns a `<p>` element but
a sequence of html elements. The caller can feed these into any container
element, e.g. `<p>`, `<div>`, `<li>` or `<td>`. It may now yield also a sequence
of `<p>` elements. It returns a flat stream, caring about separators. And
:meth:`lino.core.actor.Actor.get_table_summary` now feeds them into a `<div>`
(instead of a `<p>`)

The :meth:`get_table_summary` method of :class:`lino.modlib.comments.Comments`
doesn't use :func:`qs2summary <lino.utils.qs2summary>` because we want to wrap
each row in its own paragraph, so we don't want a flat stream with separators.

Side effect: I wrote the new method :meth:`Model.add_picker
<lino.core.model.Model.add_picker>` for editing the  new
:attr:`lino.modlib.comments.Comment.emotion` field of an existing comment, but
that turned out to be irritating. Actually you don't usually want to change the
emotion of an existing comment.

The summary of a comment now adds the number of replies. This is done using an
annotation.

A comment should not reply to a comment that is about a different owner. TODO:
add a data checker to report this condition.

The :fixture:`demo2` fixture of :mod:`lino.modlib.comments` now creates some
replies as well.

I changed the :attr:`button_text <lino.core.choicelists.Choice.button_text>` for
:attr:`lino_xl.lib.tickets.TicketStates.new` from "⛶" (U+26F6) to "⚹" (U+26B9)
because the former wasn't rendered correctly in my firefox. Same for
:attr:`lino_xl.lib.tickets.SiteStates.new`.

TODO: :func:`qs2summary` calls :meth:`summary_row` on each row. We should
probably rename this to :func:`row2summary`. Maybe also rename
:attr:`lino.core.actors.Actor.preview_limit` to :attr:`summary_limit`.

TODO: do we need to see all comments (replies) to a ticket (comment)? ATM we see
only the direct replies, there is no longer a way to "expand" a full discussion
thread. Maybe use a filter parameter for this.


TODO: the welfare test suite is still failing because I am working on
:ticket:`3581` which is waiting for feedback from Mathieu.  I guess they will
decide to move the serious data fields of :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.esf` from
the ClientSummary to the Client model.
