:date: 2020-12-08

=========================
Tuesday, December 8, 2020
=========================

I moved the demo project ``teamReact`` from the react repo to the book. But
``teamReact`` was not a good name because

- nobody (except the core team) can guess that "team" actually means "noi".

- `camelCaps` names are not `PEP 8
  <https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/>`__ compliant.

- also partly because it was always so much to type in a command line (okay
  that's not a good reason because we should fix that part of the problem by
  adding auto-completion to the :cmd:`go` command.

So I renamed  ``team`` to :mod:`noi1e <lino_book.projects.noi1e>` and
``teamReact`` to :mod:`noi1r <lino_book.projects.noi1r>`.

Note that ``noi1r`` uses the same database as ``noi1e`` but has its own test
suite. So it is listed in :file:`tests/test_demo.py` but not in
:envvar:`demo_projects`.

I removed :mod:`lino.modlib.chat` from `noi1r`'s :meth:`get_installed_plugins`.
Which causes this plugin to no longer being tested at all.  Yes,
:mod:`lino.modlib.chat` is in standby now, we have abandoned our dream of
writing an instant messenger client in Lino. We rather hope that sooner or later
some free IM client will emerge, and that Lino would rather integrate with it
than replace it.

Difference between a comment and a blog entry: In a blog entry I have
--ideally-- been thinking about how to explain a series of interconnected
thoughts. The formulation of each though may vary as long as the whole blog
entry isn't published. A comment should rather be atomic, I publish one thought
at a time. In a comment I *say* something while in a blog entry I *write*
something.

Where should we write documentation about the React front end? In the book, or
in the react repository?
