==================
Copyright is a bug
==================

The mere *word* "copyright" is actually wrong.  The laws about what we
commonly call "copyright" are actually about two very different
things.

- One part is the right to claim **authorship** of your spiritual
  work.  For example when you quote somebody else's work in your own
  book, then you must mention the original author, otherwise you get
  guilty of `plagiarism <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plagiarism>`_.
  I'll call this the author's right to **honour** for their work.

- The other part is the right to distribute **copies** of your work.
  For example if you write a book in the hope of becoming rich by
  selling millions of copies, then you don't want somebody else to
  harvest the money that grew from your seed.  I'll call this the
  author's right to **revenue** for their work.

The **honour** and the **revenue** are two important but very
different reasons why people do creative work.

`Glyn Moody <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glyn_Moody>`_ describes
these two motivations using other words. He writes: "Textual works
that are chiefly designed to convey knowledge are different in
important ways from those mainly created for entertainment—novels,
plays, poems, etc. Factual productions are generally written by
academics and researchers as a way of disseminating their discoveries
or ideas. They are not, primarily, written to gain money, unlike
novels and other works of entertainment.  The creators of factual
works are typically paid through recognition by their peers and
(sometimes) the wider public, which helps to advance their careers and
ultimately leads to indirect financial rewards such as more ready
access to grants and a higher salary."[#Moody]_

Moody calls them "factual" and "entertainment" works, and I agree that
the desire to "convey knowledge" is the prominent motivation for
writing factual works.  I am less sure about the underlying statement
that authors of novels and poems would do their work mainly for
revenue.  The difference is not in the content of the work, the
difference is in the motivation of the author.  The desire to "convey
knowledge" (others say "share knowledge") is based on the desire for
"honour".  That's why I prefer to call them *honour-motivated* and
*revenue-motivated*.

Note that honour does not exclude humbleness. Even the most humble
author who just wants to share their thoughts and definitively does
not hope to get famous would feel dishonoured if they discovered
evident plagiarism of their work.

Most people feel that the right to *honour* is ethically correct and
that the desire for honour is a noble one.  This is less clear with
the right to *revenue*.  There are people who feel that published
knowledge is common wealth of humanity, and that preventing others
from using it is morally questionable.

Having two concepts in a single word can hide their difference and
therefore have a profound impact on our thinking and discussing.

Note that many languages have no own word for copyright. They call it
"author right" (German *Autorenrecht*, French *droits d'auteur*).

The difference between "author right" and "copy right" is of such
importance that I would report this unclear naming as a serious bug if
the English language was a software project.

A software product is the result of the collaboration of many humans.




.. [#Moody] `Open access: All human knowledge is there—so why can’t
            everybody access it?
            <http://arstechnica.com/science/2016/06/what-is-open-access-free-sharing-of-all-human-knowledge/>`_
            by Glyn Moody (UK) - Jun 17, 2016 7:30pm EEST


