======================
What is free software?
======================

Vocabulary
==========

The "free" in our context does not mean "free of costs" but "free of
bondage".  `Free software
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_software>`_ is when users have the
freedom to *run* it, to *see the source code*, to *modify* it, and to
*distribute* both the original software and the adapted versions.

Free software is not to be confused with `Open-source software
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open-source_software>`_ (software with
its source code publicly available) or with `Freeware
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freeware>`_ (software with no monetary
cost).


It's not about short-term freedom
=================================

Richard Stallman's `Free Software Definition
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Free_Software_Definition>`_ states
that users of free software get the freedom to look at source code, to
change it and to share their modifications.  

The problem with this formulation is that normal software users don't
want that freedom.  Normal users want to be able to phone their friend
and ask "How do you do when you want to format this document in two
columns instead of one?"  And they want well-written documentation and
a series of books about their software so that they can look up
themselves how to solve their problems.  That's the kind of freedom
they want.  And that's the kind of freedom they are more likely to get
when they use wide-spread software products owned by some
international worldwide corporation.

When we define freedom as "the power or right to act, speak, or think
as one wants" [#oxford1]_, then there is no need for free software
because proprietary software does not violate this freedom more often
than free software.  

So free software isn't about this kind of freedom.

But freedom also means "absence of subjection to foreign domination or
despotic government" or "the state of not being imprisoned or
enslaved".  [#oxford2]_ These meanings are more difficult to grasp
because they are less related to our everyday activities.

Think for example about a woman who enjoys wearing clothes which make
her more attractive to men.  There are probably not many such women in
countries like Afghanistan.  Most women in Afghanistan probably can't
even imagine that they are missing some part of life's joys. If you
asked one of them whether she would like to wear western clothes, you
will probably get a negative answer. So they are free, aren't they?

If you agree that women in Afghanistan are free, then proprietary
software is for you. Don't read on.


It's not about money
====================

A text titled "Unavoidable Ethical Questions About Open Source"
[#scu_questions]_ published by the Santa Clara Univerity in Silicon
Valley expresses common arguments against free software.  The text is
formulated as a series of "ethical" questions. I perceive these
questions as "wrong" because they are drifting away from the important
point.  However we need to answer such questions, so here they are,
together with my answers:

- **Is human knowledge advanced by full and free access to all
  information, allowing engineers and developers to correct and
  improve on already existing systems?** -- Answer: Yes.  "[T]he free
  sharing of useful information benefits the human community.  This
  sounds so obvious as to not merit discussion, but when this point is
  applied to real life, it seems to stir up a lot of controversy."
  [#cook]_

- **Or does a lack of strong protection for IP discourage innovation
  by removing the financial incentive for developing it?** -- Answer:
  Innovation is done by creative humans who act primarily because they
  love their work and not because they get money for it. Many modern
  slaves do some job just because they are getting money in return of
  the lifetime and energy they spend for working on some project which
  is not their's. These are not usually the ones who bring innovation.

- **Classically, free speech is understood as a right, but is this a
  useful way to think about open source software? Is there anything in
  the nature of software that would give people a right to it in the
  same way that we have a right to speech?** -- Writing software is
  substantially the same activity as writing a prosa text.
  Prohibiting to share software is like prohibiting to share
  texts. Proprietary software violates the basic human right for free
  speech.

- **Is it fair to expect software developers to create and distribute
  their intellectual product without restrictions while we do not
  expect the same from other inventors or producers?** -- Free
  software does not mean voluntary work. There are many people who
  earn their living for writing free software.  The free software
  industry shows that proprietary licensing is not the only way of
  making money using software amd that there are better methods to pay
  software developers for their work.

- **The Vatican document “Ethics in Internet” argues that “use of the
  new information technology... needs to be informed and guided by a
  resolute commitment to the practice of solidarity in the service of
  the common good.” Flowing from this view, the document says that
  “cyberspace ought to be a resource of comprehensive information and
  services available without charge to all, and in a wide range of
  languages. The winner in this process will be humanity as a whole
  and not just a wealthy elite that controls science, technology, and
  the planet's resources.” Is this view applicable to software as
  well?** -- Answer: Yes. The Vatican's document takes a beautifully
  clear position against proprietary software.  Software is stored
  knowledge about how a given job can be done. This is information. It
  is comprehensive only in the source code form.

- **(...) But to others, “sharing” software is like having to consent
  to its theft because the sharer is giving away someone’s work
  product, which is the result of sweat and ingenuity and which has
  monetary value, as well. Will open source inculcate the virtues of
  friends or of thieves?** -- Answer: Yes, using proprietary software
  without permission is theft. Don't do that. But it is "theft" only
  because the copyright holder refuses to share. Using free software
  is never theft because the author has publicly given their
  permission to share their work.  Note that the "monetary value" is
  usually not owned by those who gave their "sweat and ingenuity".

While my above answers --hopefully-- give satisfying answers to the
given arguments [#jesuits]_, all these thoughts are rather misleading
regarding to our original question about why software must be free.
Free software is definitively not about money, neither about the price
of the product nor about the wage of the author.


It is about power
=================

Free software is not about *money* and not about *comfortability*, it
is about **power**.  The real issue with proprietary software is that
its copyright holder tries to gain power over its users.  Non-free
software makes the users surrender control over their computing to
someone else.\ [#watercutter]_

Vendors of proprietary software are skillful in finding ever and ever
new tricks and whole technologies whose ultimate goal is to bind you
to their product (`vendor lock-in
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vendor_lock-in>`_).  They hide this
fact more or less successfully, but it is a necessary part of the
game.



.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#cook] `Cody Cook: Open Source Jesus <http://www.cantus-firmus.com>`_

.. [#scu_questions] `Unavoidable Ethical Questions About Open Source
                    <http://www.scu.edu/ethics/publications/submitted/open-source.html>`_

.. [#jesuits] It is funny that catholic monks seem to be more
              concerned about money than about anything else.

.. [#oxford1] First meaning of freedom according to `Oxford dictionary
              <http://www.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/english/freedom>`_

.. [#oxford2] See most other meanings of freedom according to `Oxford
              dictionary
              <http://www.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/english/freedom>`_

.. [#watercutter] Angela Watercutter in `Why Free Software Is More
                  Important Now Than Ever Before
                  <https://www.wired.com/2013/09/why-free-software-is-more-important-now-than-ever-before/>`__
                  (wired.com 2013-09-28)

