:date: 2021-02-26

=========================
Friday, February 26, 2021
=========================

.. include:: /shared/include/defs.rst

Mehedi is discovering :ref:`noi` and caused the following server traceback::

  Internal Server Error: /api/working/MySessions/-99999
  RelatedObjectDoesNotExist at /api/working/MySessions/-99999
  Session has no ticket.

Yes, he probably tried to click the |insert| button in
:class:`lino_xl.lib.working.MySessions`
or some other table of :term:`work sessions <work session>`.

To create a session, you must click on the
:guilabel:`▶` button in the :guilabel:`Workflow` field (which runs the
:class:`lino_xl.lib.working.StartTicketSession` action).

In tables of :term:`work sessions <work session>` we don't want users to
manually create a session. There should be no insert button (|insert|) So for
:class:`lino_xl.lib.working.Sessions` I removed the :attr:`insert_layout
<lino.core.actors.Actor.insert_layout>`.

Having no :attr:`insert_layout <lino.core.actors.Actor.insert_layout>` doesn't
yet disable the phantom row in grid views.  For this I must also set
:attr:`can_create <lino.core.actors.Actor.can_create>` to `False`.

I committed above work in two repositories:

- 2021-02-26 06:21 in *xl*:
  `a0cb403 <https://github.com/lino-framework/xl/commit/1e5764279c5661f265d3c42de93ffceb8a0cb403>`__
  (fix #3993 (session has no ticket))
- 2021-02-26 06:23 in *book*:
  `0b4591d <https://github.com/lino-framework/book/commit/d486e0dffb07d721659f8e252e6d48b3b0b4591d>`__
  (changelog. review docs about work time.)


Inserting primeicon icons into the sphinx docs
==============================================

How to include icons from `primeicons <https://github.com/primefaces/primeicons>`__
into a docs page? For example the |filter| button?

I downloaded the source file to a folder :file:`/shared/images/pi` (under :xfile:`docs`)::

  $ curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/primefaces/primeicons/master/raw-svg/filter.svg > filter.svg

I added docutils `substitution definitions
<https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/restructuredtext.html#substitution-definitions>`__
to my :file:`/shared/include/defs.rst` file::

  .. |filter|  image:: /../docs/shared/images/pi/filter.svg
    :class: svg

And in the :file:`linodocs.css` file of :mod:`lino.sphinxcontrib.logo` I added
the css descriptor::

  img.pi-button {
      width: 1.1em;
      height: 1.1em;
      background-color: LightSkyBlue;
      border: 3px solid LightSkyBlue;
  }

I later automated the download task by writing a :file:`download.py` script in
the :file:`/shared/images/pi` folder.

TODO: find a way so that we don't need to copy the :file:`defs.rst` and the
:file:`.svg` files to each repository. I agree that there are more urgent issues
in Lino.


Cannot edit grid cells
======================

I continued to dive around in :ticket:`3981`.

During a debugger tour I saw that the grid calls a method
:meth:`primereact.datatable.BodyCell.bindDocumentEditListener`, which adds the
following documentEditListener::

  if (!this.documentEditListener) {
        this.documentEditListener = function (e) {
          if (_this3.isOutsideClicked(e)) {
            _this3.switchCellToViewMode(e, true);
          }
        };
      document.addEventListener('click', this.documentEditListener);
      }

And the :meth:`isOutsideClicked` returns true. Which is obviously wrong here.
But why? First of all, which version of PrimeReact do I have? 6.0.1. And they
released 6.0.2 some weeks ago. So let's upgrade::

  $ ncu -u
  Upgrading /home/luc/work/react/package.json
  [====================] 34/34 100%

   primereact             ^6.0.1  →    ^6.0.2
   @babel/core          ^7.12.10  →   ^7.13.1
   @babel/preset-env    ^7.12.11  →   ^7.13.5
   @babel/preset-react  ^7.12.10  →  ^7.12.13
   css-loader             ^5.0.1  →    ^5.1.0
   cypress                ^6.3.0  →    ^6.5.0
   postcss-loader         ^4.2.0  →    ^5.0.0
   query-string          ^6.13.8  →   ^6.14.0
   webpack                    ^4  →        ^5
   whatwg-fetch           ^3.5.0  →    ^3.6.1

  Run npm install to install new versions.

However before running `npm install` I changed webpack back from 5 to 4 in my
:xfile:`package.json` file because switching from webpack 4 to 5 is another
topic.

But the issue remains also with PR 6.0.2.

I looked at the git history of :file:`datatable/BodyCell.js` and saw that it has
an  `interesting change
<https://github.com/primefaces/primereact/commit/4972403cf188eaabf9e9ca0c6ac11d54e983210f#diff-a66ee740975e449b18b568773cc050f79cd564a058e4cf4d2b3246af0d974a03>`__
only some hours ago. And the commit message says it fixes an issue  `#1828
<https://github.com/primefaces/primereact/issues/1828>`_, which looks
interesting.

I have a git clone of primereact on my machine. How can I "install this as the
development version", similar to :cmd:`pip install -e`?

In my :xfile:`package.json` I changed the version spec for primereact dependency
from `"^6.0.2"` to  `"git+https://github.com/primefaces/primereact.git"` and ran
:cmd:`npm install`.

Then I read `this thread
<https://stackoverflow.com/questions/14381898/local-dependency-in-package-json>`__
and tried `"file:../primereact"`.


Module not found: Error: Can't resolve 'primereact/column' in '/home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components'

::

  $ rm -rf node_modules
  $ npm install


  npm WARN deprecated urix@0.1.0: Please see https://github.com/lydell/urix#deprecated
  npm WARN deprecated har-validator@5.1.5: this library is no longer supported
  npm WARN deprecated resolve-url@0.2.1: https://github.com/lydell/resolve-url#deprecated
  npm WARN deprecated chokidar@2.1.8: Chokidar 2 will break on node v14+. Upgrade to chokidar 3 with 15x less dependencies.
  npm WARN deprecated request@2.88.2: request has been deprecated, see https://github.com/request/request/issues/3142
  npm WARN deprecated core-js@2.6.12: core-js@<3 is no longer maintained and not recommended for usage due to the number of issues. Please, upgrade your dependencies to the actual version of core-js@3.
  npm ERR! code 1
  npm ERR! git dep preparation failed
  npm ERR! command /usr/local/bin/node /usr/local/lib/node_modules/npm/bin/npm-cli.js install --force --cache=/home/luc/.npm --prefer-offline=false --prefer-online=false --offline=false --no-progress --no-save --no-audit
  npm ERR! npm WARN using --force Recommended protections disabled.
  npm ERR! npm ERR! code ERR_SOCKET_TIMEOUT
  npm ERR! npm ERR! errno ERR_SOCKET_TIMEOUT
  npm ERR! npm ERR! request to http://repo.internal.cleartax.co:4873/yargs-parser/-/yargs-parser-7.0.0.tgz failed, reason: Socket timeout
  npm ERR!
  npm ERR! npm ERR! A complete log of this run can be found in:
  npm ERR! npm ERR!     /home/luc/.npm/_logs/2021-02-26T15_26_34_708Z-debug.log

  npm ERR! A complete log of this run can be found in:
  npm ERR!     /home/luc/.npm/_logs/2021-02-26T15_26_36_453Z-debug.log
