:date: 2021-03-24

=========================
Wednesday, March 24, 2021
=========================

Sharif and Luc are glad to announce that a new Lino is born: *Lino Shop*, an
application for managing Webshops. Source code is hosted on GitLab:
https://gitlab.com/lino-framework/shop

The docs will be at https://lino-framework.gitlab.io/shop/

It is of course a newcomer on a crowded battlefield.

New plugin :mod:`lino_xl.lib.shopping`.
Optimizations in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.products`.
New database model :mod:`lino_xl.lib.accounting.PaymentMethod`.

In :mod:`lino_xl.lib.products` I renamed `ProductCat` to `Category` (and its FK
on Product from ``cat`` to ``category``)

We now have a promising answer to the question "How to define many categories
and product types".  The :mod:`lino_shop.lib.products` plugin extends
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.products` and adds two new database models `Thing` and `Book`,
which are MTI children of "simple" products. These are of course just some
examples. TODO: show ways of customizing filter parameters.

The next big piece I want to see is a meaningful content in the dashboard of a
"normal" (or anonymous) user. The site admin must have a possibility to
configure something like "dashboard cards", which would extend the default
dashboard items.

Something like this::

  class DashboardCard:

    title = CharField (free text)
    picture = ImageField ()
    target = GenericForeignKey to a Publishable object (usually some category)
    parameters = (optional filter parameters, e.g. "top ten")
    layout options (e.g. width of the card)
    card_type : choicelist (Link, Carousel, )
