:date: 2021-04-01

=======================
Thursday, April 1, 2021
=======================

Importing contact data
======================

New action :attr:`lino_xl.lib.contacts.Partner.import_text`. For testing I
switched to default_ui extjs because this action is also affected by
:ticket:`4066`. Got a first case to work.  I publish this, but this is
definitively not fool-proof. Maybe somebody else wants to continue on this?

Customizing the toolbar
=======================

I updated some pages of the Developer Guide: :ref:`layouts`. And one new page
:ref:`dev.layouts.more`.

.. currentmodule:: lino.core.actors

The :attr:`Actor.hide_top_toolbar` attribute is conceptually the same as
:attr:`Action.hide_navigator`. React mixed them up until now, but from now on now knows
only at the :attr:`hide_navigator` attribute.

Both attributes existed also on :class:`Action`, where I removed them.

The :attr:`hide_top_toolbar` attribute, in ExtJS, causes the top toolbar to
become a bottom toolbar. And that bottom toolbar never has navigation widgets.
React does not use it any more, and I think that we will deprecate it in some
future. So when application code says ``hide_top_toolbar = True``, then you
should change this to ``hide_navigator = True``.

New actor attribute :attr:`Actor.allow_delete`. We need it for
:class:`lino.modlib.system.SiteConfig`, which, indeed is not
:attr:`Actor.readonly` (every :term:`site administrator` can edit the site
parameters). But even for a :term:`site administrator` it makes no sense to
delete this record.

After these changes I did a manual tour for testing the following actors:

- :class:`lino_xl.lib.calview.DaySlave`
- calendar WeeklySlave in presto
- User preferences
- SiteConfig
- Shopping Cart
- Accounting Report
- polls.AnswerRemarksByAnswer

Sharif watched me via Jitsi. This had two advantages: (1) the task was less
boring for me and (2) he learned quite a few things about Lino.

As a side effect of the testing tour, I added a `:attr:`window_size
<lino.core.layouts.Layout.window_size>` to the site parameters window of most
applications (except for welfare where its a :term:`tabbed detail layout`).
