:date: 2021-04-02

=====================
Friday, April 2, 2021
=====================

Charles is bombing us with questions that help me to see what is missing in the
docs. When working at the :ref:`dev.layouts.more` page I realized how
complicated  it is when you want a :term:`table view` that opens directly into
the detail window instead of a list window.  You need to say::

      @classmethod
      def get_default_action(cls):
          return actions.ShowDetail(cls.detail_layout)


.. currentmodule:: lino.core.actors

The :attr:`Actor.get_default_action` method is now being called when all other
standard actions have been bound. As a result, an application developer can now
simplify the code for saying that a :term:`table view` should not have any
:term:`list window`::

      @classmethod
      def get_default_action(cls):
          return cls.detail_action

This apparently minor change caused an avalanche of changes in the deepest inner
parts of Lino.  Hic sunt dracones. There is danger of having introduced bugs
that slip through the test suite.

I removed the mysterious :attr:`Actor.default_elem_action_name` attribute
because (1) I don't understand its purpose (it's obviously used to customize the
action_name for the detail_action but I can't remember why we want this) and (2)
because I suspected it to be the reason why React doesn't show the
`system.About` dialog.  At the moment I do not yet remove the
:attr:`default_list_action_name`, this might come later.

Side effects:
I discovered that :class:`lino_xl.lib.ledger.Situation` table was
no longer used, so I removed it.
I formulated and then fixed :ticket:`4075`, which required me to
extend the API for :meth:`lino.core.plugin.Plugin.get_quicklinks`: it can
now return a `dict`.


I had the following warning when I pushed to react::

  OK to checkin react https://luc.lino-framework.org/blog/2021/0402.html? [Y,n]?
  [master 9705822] https://luc.lino-framework.org/blog/2021/0402.html
   2 files changed, 12 insertions(+), 14 deletions(-)
  Counting objects: 6, done.
  Delta compression using up to 2 threads.
  Compressing objects: 100% (6/6), done.
  Writing objects: 100% (6/6), 764 bytes | 764.00 KiB/s, done.
  Total 6 (delta 4), reused 0 (delta 0)
  remote: Resolving deltas: 100% (4/4), completed with 4 local objects.
  To github.com:lino-framework/react.git
     2cfdc2f..9705822  master -> master
   ! [rejected]        blurry -> blurry (non-fast-forward)
  error: failed to push some refs to 'git@github.com:lino-framework/react.git'
  hint: Updates were rejected because a pushed branch tip is behind its remote
  hint: counterpart. Check out this branch and integrate the remote changes
  hint: (e.g. 'git pull ...') before pushing again.
  hint: See the 'Note about fast-forwards' in 'git push --help' for details.
  CommandError: inv ci -t 20210402 ended with error 1 in project react
