:date: 2021-04-05

=====================
Monday, April 5, 2021
=====================

I started :ticket:`4081` and changed the license of :mod:`lino`, :mod:`lino_xl`
and :mod:`lino_book` from BSD to AGPL. The other repositories will follow. I
discussed this decision orally with Tonis and Sharif, who appreciated the move
from BSD to GPL. I didn't yet manage to talk with Hamza, but I assume that he
appreciates it as well.

Also updated the :ref:`lino.contrib` where I added a section "Before getting
started".

En passant I started to check and review the :ref:`cg`, which was quite scaring
at places.

I have been thinking and writing much about this topic:  `Why software should be
free <https://hw.saffre-rumma.net/fs/>`__. I believe that intellectual property
was a bad idea for humanity and that it is time to get rid of it. But of course
that's a crazy claim, and I don't know the truth, I am just a average-talented
programmer with a tendency to philosophy, and with age I am getting more
audacious. Changing Lino to the AGPL is my legal commitment that I will rather
grow potatoes and chicken than accepting to write non-free software.


Wow, and it seems that I managed to finish :ticket:`4079` before midnight: We
have a new doctree, the Lino Hosting Guide, which I cut out of the book and
moved into a separate repository, hosted at https://gitlab.com/lino-framework/hg
and rendered at https://hosting.lino-framework.org 

The tricky thing was to handle dependencies: the Hosting Guide can refer to the
Community Guide, but not to the Developer Guide. We have the following
dependence tree:

  Community Guide --> Hosting Guide --> Developer Guide

The main trigger was that I'd like Hannes to start maintaining the Hosting
Guide.
