:date: 2021-04-07

========================
Wednesday, April 7, 2021
========================


Shared Sphinx configurations
============================

I did a series of changes in the whole documentation system. We are moving
towards a new feature I'd call "Shared Sphinx configurations".  The idea was
triggered by :ticket:`4085` (A common Sphinx config for non-tech docs like cg,
hg and sr), which was triggered by :ticket:`4079` (Move Hosting Guide section
from book to a separate doctree).  The basic problem is that we have a lot of
Sphinx :xfile:`conf.py` files and most of them contain redundant information.
And because things evolve over the years, they are quite a mess. For example the
:rst:role:`ticket` role (used to render for example :ticket:`4085`) was pointing
to a wrong URL in most doctrees. :func:`atelier.sphinxconf.configure` or its
child :func:`lino.sphinxcontrib.configure` now set reasonable default values for
`intersphinx_mapping` and `extlinks`. It is now a bit less messy and works for
me, but before writing documentation about it, it needs more work.

I removed a few redundant settings for which the default value is given by
atelier: master_doc, source_suffix, primary_domain


Change license from BSD to AGPL
===============================

Yes, Lino goes back from BSD to AGPL. Current discussions are in :ticket:`4081`,
but topic itself is old. See for example :doc:`/blog/2012/1123`.

I decided this as the CEO of Rumma & Ko Ltd, who is the copyright holder. I
previously checked with all active contributors whether they like the decision.

There are some inactive contributors. For example Joe, who contributed between
June 2013 and October 2014. I remember that Joe told me once that he wouldn't
like Lino to switch to AGPL.  But I doubt whether he is still interested in the
question, and I don't need to worry whether inactive contributors agree with my
decision because the BSD gives me permission to change to AGPL. The opposite is
less true, if I got that right, and it's one of the important reasons for my
decision: if, for whatever reason, some greedy giant would want to take Lino and
turn it into non-free software, they would get only the versions published until
today.

After having meditated all this for a few weeks, and after changing the licenses
and copyright headers of lino, xl and book some days ago, I now did it for the
remaining repositories:

- `rstgen    <https://github.com/lino-framework/rstgen>`__
- `etgen     <https://github.com/lino-framework/etgen>`__
- `atelier   <https://gitlab.com/lino-framework/atelier>`__
- `lino      <https://github.com/lino-framework/lino>`__
- `xl        <https://github.com/lino-framework/xl>`__
- `noi       <https://github.com/lino-framework/noi>`__
- `cosi      <https://github.com/lino-framework/cosi>`__
- `voga      <https://github.com/lino-framework/voga>`__
- `care      <https://github.com/lino-framework/care>`__
- `vilma     <https://github.com/lino-framework/vilma>`__
- `avanti    <https://github.com/lino-framework/avanti>`__
- `tera      <https://github.com/lino-framework/tera>`__
- `lets      <https://gitlab.com/lino-framework/lets>`__
- `book      <https://gitlab.com/lino-framework/book>`__
- `welfare   <https://github.com/lino-framework/welfare>`__
- `weleup    <https://github.com/lino-framework/weleup>`__
- `welcht    <https://github.com/lino-framework/weleup>`__
- `presto    <https://github.com/lino-framework/presto>`__
- `mercato   <https://github.com/lino-framework/mercato>`__
- `pronto    <https://github.com/lino-framework/pronto>`__
- `mentori   <https://gitlab.com/lino-framework/mentori>`__
- `ext6      <https://github.com/lino-framework/ext6>`__
- `react     <https://github.com/lino-framework/react>`__
- `amici     <https://github.com/lino-framework/amici>`__
- `ciao      <https://github.com/lino-framework/ciao>`__
- `getlino   <https://github.com/lino-framework/getlino>`__
- `openui5   <https://github.com/lino-framework/openui5>`__
- `algus     <https://github.com/lino-framework/algus>`__
- `patrols   <https://github.com/lsaffre/lino-patrols>`__
- `logos     <https://github.com/lsaffre/lino-logos>`__
- `blog      <https://github.com/lsaffre/blog>`__

One exception: `eidreader <https://github.com/lino-framework/eidreader>`__
remains BSD because it is a command-line tool.
