:date: 2021-04-26

======================
Monday, April 26, 2021
======================

I did more changes in the "documentation network".  My concrete goal for today
is that the docs about the applications we declare "ready to use" and for which
we offer :term:`hosting service` would become "good enough". Where "good enough"
means that a potential customer who found our page `Lino for all
<https://www.saffre-rumma.net/services/lino4all/>`__ page would get a reasonable
answer to their obvious question "What can these applications do? Where are the
functional specifications?".

A part of this project was the question whether we should move the specs of the
privileged apps from the book to their individual docs. Answer (after several
hours of research) is "no". A step forwards today was that we no longer need to
define the ``public_url`` of each doctree at two different places. It is now
given by the :envvar:`intersphinx_urls` setting.

I moved the support for :envvar:`selectable_languages` from lino to atelier,
including the :file:`default_conf.py` and the templates files.

Another "result" is that I now know: Sphinx does not have a built-in way to
share include files across multiple doctrees.    For bigger systems these things
would be regulated using a content delivery network. As a little step forward, I
now wrote a file :file:`update_shared_docs.sh`, which does for noi what I did
manually until now.

A third result of today is the :ref:`dev.redirected_urls` page, which should
make sure that historic URLs are correctly redirected.
