:date: 2021-05-03

===================
Monday, May 3, 2021
===================

Online registration for Lino Shop
=================================

This week-end I worked, partly with Sharif, on :ticket:`4143` (Review handling
of the User.partner field), which was triggered by :ticket:`4121`, which we need
for :ref:`shop`. But it is about :term:`online registration`, a general feature
on which we had previously done some work, which went to sleep with the
:ref:`care` project. Now is the moment to wake it up. I also did :ticket:`2049`
(Users don't need to be partners in Noi) because it is part of the problem. I am
now sure that we want to get rid of :mod:`lino_xl.lib.online.users`.

.. currentmodule:: lino.modlib.users

I moved some functionality from :mod:`lino_xl.lib.online.users` to
:mod:`lino.modlib.users`:

- New plugin option :data:`use_verify` and :attr:`User.verify` action.
- The `submit_insert` action now always does a nice warning when a username is already taken.
- The :attr:`User.send_welcome_email` action is no longer a window action. We
  don't want any question about recipient or subject of the mail.

When the :attr:`User.partner` field is empty, and all three fields first_name,
last_name and email are non-empty, (and if the user is verified on a site with
:data:`use_verify` set to True), then Lino now automatically creates a
`contacts.Person` based on this data. This automatism does not apply to
SiteAdmin users who can edit the partner field manually.

As a side effect I had to review :class:`lino_noi.lib.users.UserDetail`.

One advantage of not using  :mod:`lino_xl.lib.online.users` any more: In
:ref:`shop` we can have a same :term:`person` with two user accounts: one as a
:attr:`lino_shop.lib.shop.UserTypes.customer` and one as a
:attr:`lino_shop.lib.shop.UserTypes.vendor`.

These changes caused (trivial) failures in quite some doctest suites because we
have now one more view (about.DateFormats), one window action less and one more field in User.

Data migration will be funny: In noi we no longer use online.users: User is no
longer a subclass of Person. Might require some magic when migrating production
data.

New user role :class:`LedgerPartner`
====================================

.. currentmodule:: lino_xl.lib.accounting

In :mod:`lino_xl.lib.accounting` I added a new role :class:`LedgerPartner`, and
:attr:`lino_shop.lib.shop.UserTypes.customer` and
:attr:`lino_shop.lib.shop.UserTypes.vendor` already inherit from it. Next step
is to add :term:`data tables <data table>` like  :class:`MyInvoices` and
:class:`MyPayments`


Configuring how to represent dates
==================================

I added a new field :attr:`User.date_format`. It is there for all applications.
It is not yet being used, but :mod:`lino_react` is ready to implement it. And
:mod:`lino.modlib.extjs` might follow one day.

The Hydra effect
================

Note: The Hydra effect is when you have the impression of not advancing. You cut
down one head of the monster and it grows seven new ones. But Lino is like a
Hydra, except that it gets more *beautiful* (not more dangerous) each time you
fix a bug.  Working on a beast like Lino makes sense only because it is free
software.

The documentation framework, even taken on its own, is a full-featured Hydra.
But is getting better with each iteration.  Now we have a page about it:
`lino.doctrees`.

Some bug in the React text editor
=================================

I created a comment and then pasted some text into it. This caused my browser
page to lock up. Firefox asked me "This page is slowing down your browser. Do
you want to stop it?"  After stopping it, I had the following messages in the JS console::

  NWS App.js:1097:15
  request aborted DOMException: The operation was aborted. DataProvider.js:117:19
  Use of Mutation Events is deprecated. Use MutationObserver instead. main.js line 3530 > eval:5511:24
  Script terminated by timeout at:
  commitMutationEffects@webpack:///./node_modules/react-dom/cjs/react-dom.development.js?:3945:214
  callCallback@webpack:///./node_modules/react-dom/cjs/react-dom.development.js?:657:119
  invokeGuardedCallbackDev@webpack:///./node_modules/react-dom/cjs/react-dom.development.js?:677:45
  invokeGuardedCallback@webpack:///./node_modules/react-dom/cjs/react-dom.development.js?:696:126
  commitRootImpl@webpack:///./node_modules/react-dom/cjs/react-dom.development.js?:3908:49
  unstable_runWithPriority@webpack:///./node_modules/scheduler/cjs/scheduler.development.js?:465:16
  runWithPriority$1@webpack:///./node_modules/react-dom/cjs/react-dom.development.js?:2063:1059
  commitRoot@webpack:///./node_modules/react-dom/cjs/react-dom.development.js?:3877:526
  performSyncWorkOnRoot@webpack:///./node_modules/react-dom/cjs/react-dom.development.js?:3753:107
  flushSyncCallbackQueueImpl/<@webpack:///./node_modules/react-dom/cjs/react-dom.development.js?:2069:188
  unstable_runWithPriority@webpack:///./node_modules/scheduler/cjs/scheduler.development.js?:465:16
  runWithPriority$1@webpack:///./node_modules/react-dom/cjs/react-dom.development.js?:2063:1059
  flushSyncCallbackQueueImpl@webpack:///./node_modules/react-dom/cjs/react-dom.development.js?:2069:95
  flushSyncCallbackQueue@webpack:///./node_modules/react-dom/cjs/react-dom.development.js?:2068:339
  scheduleUpdateOnFiber@webpack:///./node_modules/react-dom/cjs/react-dom.development.js?:3631:20
  enqueueSetState@webpack:///./node_modules/react-dom/cjs/react-dom.development.js?:2195:489
  Component.prototype.setState@webpack:///./node_modules/react/cjs/react.development.js?:358:20
  onTextChange@webpack:///./lino_react/react/components/TextFieldElement.js?:120:12
  componentDidMount/</<@webpack:///./node_modules/primereact/components/editor/Editor.js?:282:27
  emit@webpack:///./node_modules/quill/dist/quill.js?:11207:33
  emit@webpack:///./node_modules/quill/dist/quill.js?:2526:105
  modify@webpack:///./node_modules/quill/dist/quill.js?:2089:45
  updateContents@webpack:///./node_modules/quill/dist/quill.js?:1959:27
  onPaste/<@webpack:///./node_modules/quill/dist/quill.js?:11622:28
  main.js line 3818 > eval:3945:214
  The above error occurred in the <Tooltip> component:

  Tooltip@webpack:///./node_modules/primereact/components/tooltip/Tooltip.js?:291:20

  Consider adding an error boundary to your tree to customize error handling behavior.
  Visit https://reactjs.org/link/error-boundaries to learn more about error boundaries. react-dom.development.js:3308:9
      React 10
      unstable_runWithPriority webpack:///./node_modules/scheduler/cjs/scheduler.development.js?:465
      React 4
      unstable_runWithPriority webpack:///./node_modules/scheduler/cjs/scheduler.development.js?:465
      React 6
      onTextChange webpack:///./lino_react/react/components/TextFieldElement.js?:120
      componentDidMount webpack:///./node_modules/primereact/components/editor/Editor.js?:282
      emit webpack:///./node_modules/quill/dist/quill.js?:11207
      emit webpack:///./node_modules/quill/dist/quill.js?:2526
      modify webpack:///./node_modules/quill/dist/quill.js?:2089
      updateContents webpack:///./node_modules/quill/dist/quill.js?:1959
      onPaste webpack:///./node_modules/quill/dist/quill.js?:11622
  Uncaught Error: An error was thrown inside one of your components, but React doesn't know what it was. This is likely due to browser flakiness. React does its best to preserve the "Pause on exceptions" behavior of the DevTools, which requires some DEV-mode only tricks. It's possible that these don't work in your browser. Try triggering the error in production mode, or switching to a modern browser. If you suspect that this is actually an issue with React, please file an issue.
      React 3
      unstable_runWithPriority webpack:///./node_modules/scheduler/cjs/scheduler.development.js?:465
      React 4
      unstable_runWithPriority webpack:///./node_modules/scheduler/cjs/scheduler.development.js?:465
      React 6
      onTextChange webpack:///./lino_react/react/components/TextFieldElement.js?:120
      componentDidMount webpack:///./node_modules/primereact/components/editor/Editor.js?:282
      emit webpack:///./node_modules/quill/dist/quill.js?:11207
      emit webpack:///./node_modules/quill/dist/quill.js?:2526
      modify webpack:///./node_modules/quill/dist/quill.js?:2089
      updateContents webpack:///./node_modules/quill/dist/quill.js?:1959
      onPaste webpack:///./node_modules/quill/dist/quill.js?:11622
  main.js line 3818 > eval:678:7

But I was not yet able to systematically reproduce this problem. ​

Testing :term:`online registration`
===================================

For testing :term:`online registration` feature,  we now have a new function
:func:`lino.core.auth.utils.activate_social_auth_testing`. These "public
secrets" are used for testing social authentication on a localhost. Until now
they were available only in noi1e (and noi1r which imports the settings from
noi1e). But now they are used also for :mod:`lino_shop.projects.shop1`

I started to write some content for :ref:`shop.guide`.



Database migration on Jane
==========================

Today I did two releases to Jane.  The first went very smoothly, despite my
expectations. I commented:

  Wow, despite the fact that I wrote it myself, Lino will always surprise me. It
  did the data migration without any need to manually change anything in the
  restore.py file. I am surprised.

And this was only the first surprise. It got even more surprising. I then
noticed that the :attr:`lino.mixins.polymorphic.Polymorphic.mti_navigator` field
was still there on the Person detail.  Explanation: for some reason my :cmd:`inv
sdist release` in :ref:`noi` hadn't worked.  PyPI still returned the old version
of noi. And only for noi, not for lino, xl and react.

It is interesting to see that the old noi version had been working well together
with the new lino and xl.

After releasing noi to pypi for good and running the :xfile:`pull.sh` script
again, my :xfile:`restore.py` finally gave the expected problem::

  django.core.exceptions.ValidationError: ['A Person cannot be parent for a User']

My first guess is to simply *not* create any Partner row for the existing users.
Because this probably reflects

::

  def create_users_user(person_ptr_id, modified, created, start_date, end_date, password, last_login, username, user_typ$
      kw = dict()
      kw.update(modified=modified)
      kw.update(created=created)
      kw.update(start_date=start_date)
      kw.update(end_date=end_date)
      kw.update(password=password)
      kw.update(last_login=last_login)
      kw.update(username=username)
      kw.update(user_type=user_type)
      kw.update(initials=initials)
      kw.update(id=person_ptr_id)  # ADDED
      # REMOVED kw.update(partner_id=partner_id)
      kw.update(verification_code=verification_code)
      kw.update(time_zone=time_zone)
      kw.update(date_format=date_format)
      # REMOVED kw.update(callme_mode=callme_mode)
      # REMOVED kw.update(user_state=user_state)
      kw.update(access_class=access_class)
      kw.update(event_type_id=event_type_id)
      kw.update(open_session_on_new_ticket=open_session_on_new_ticket)
      kw.update(notify_myself=notify_myself)
      kw.update(mail_mode=mail_mode)
      kw.update(github_username=github_username)
      # REMOVED return create_mti_child(contacts_Person, person_ptr_id, users_User, **kw)
      return users_User(**kw)  # ADDED

::

  Loading 23880 objects to table changes_change...
  Deferred Change #11704 ('#11704') : {'user': ['User instance with id 324 does not exist.']}
  {'user': ['User instance with id 324 does not exist.']}
  Traceback (most recent call last):
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/jane/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/lino/utils/dpy.py", line 159, in try_save
      obj.full_clean()
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/jane/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/db/models/base.py", line 1238, in full_clean
      raise ValidationError(errors)
  django.core.exceptions.ValidationError: {'user': ['User instance with id 324 does not exist.']}
  Deferred Change #14221 ('#14221') : {'user': ['User instance with id 328 does not exist.']}
  Deferred Change #15241 ('#15241') : {'user': ['User instance with id 333 does not exist.']}

::

  Deferred Comment #1446 ('Comment #1446') : {'user': ['User instance with id 324 does not exist.']}
  {'user': ['User instance with id 324 does not exist.']}
  Traceback (most recent call last):
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/jane/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/lino/utils/dpy.py", line 159, in try_save
      obj.full_clean()
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/jane/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/db/models/base.py", line 1238, in full_clean
      raise ValidationError(errors)
  django.core.exceptions.ValidationError: {'user': ['User instance with id 324 does not exist.']}


::
  Trying to save 2773 deferred objects.


    kw.update(id=person_ptr_id)  # new


324 : kader
328 : thierry
