:date: 2021-05-12

=======================
Wednesday, May 12, 2021
=======================

Some revolutions in the docs: the Developer Guide (docs of the book repository)
is now published under a new subdomain https://dev.lino-framework.org/, and I
moved the chapters about Lino from the Community Guide (cg) to a new repository
"lf", which is now served at www.lino-framework.org. Th cg doctree no longer
explains what Lino is (this is now done in lf), it focuses on how to interact
with the Lino community. There are probably still some links that I forgot to
update. Let's hope that this is yet another step towards better documentation.

Sharif did good work for :ticket:`4149`. This was his first "chirurgical
intervention" in the heart of Lino.  Of course it caused quite some detail
devils and side effects.  We had some fun (re)discovering cool things. And
finally, the new feature is there, and it was needed: the new
:meth:`Actor.hide_editing` method makes it possible to say that ProductsStaff
can edit products while a normal ProductsUser can't.

We also had some dialogue about how to organize the documentation. One
conclusion maybe: we can't remove all the docstrings in a core module like
:mod:`lino.core.actors`.  But the docstrings should be rather short and refer to
a topics page.

.. currentmodule:: lino.core.actors

We used this to write documentation about the new :meth:`Actor.hide_editing`
method. Also :attr:`Actor.hide_navigator` and :attr:`Actor.editable`.

Note that :meth:`lino.core.actions.Action.hide_editing` is an instance method.
