:date: 2021-05-15

======================
Saturday, May 15, 2021
======================

Sharif and I had another video brainstorming meeting.

TODO:

- Accept all kinds of media files, not only images.

- Selecting a Media file in Uploads.insert should show thumbnails of the images-
  Define a custom chooser for FileUsage.file (the FK field pointing to existing
  File). Maybe add a new method :meth:`Model.get_text_for_value`

  Model.choice_layout = """name thumbnail"""

- A method :meth:`FileUsage.get_file_display` would not be optimal. This feature is
  not tested and not used anywhere so far. But it is standard Django behaviour.

- Define a :meth:`__str__` method for FileUsage (which is used in different places,
  e.g. when setting display_mode of UsagesByController to summary.


- The buttons to toggle between display modes should have a tooltip.

- Tooltips (and other texts in the react js code) should be translatable.

- The :attr:`file__thumbnail` in :attr:`FileUsage.detail_layout` doesn't seem to
  work. Why?

- Reactivate :attr:`lino.core.site.Site.use_websockets` : the basic feature is
  that Lino would ask the client's browser permission for notifications. And
  then the user would get notified as a desktop notification. notify with
  :attr:`use_websockets` is not used anywhere, and would require a revision Note
  that the current use_websockets was written before Django 3. See
  https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/topics/async/

- In :ref:`shop` unverified users should not have permission
  to place an order. But they can collect products into their basket.

- When :data:`lino.modlib.users.use_verify` is True and the user is not verified,
  then Lino should give a welcome message "You are not yet verified. Check your
  inbox. Or click here to re-sent a verification code."

- Add phone verification. Testing this requires a SMS sending service.


DONE:

- Added a new plugin option `notify.mark_seen_when_sent` When this is True, Lino
  now marks notification messages as `seen` when they have been sent via email.

- The default implementation of Actor.get_table_summary() now also uses
  Request.plain_toolbar_buttons(). The difference is that if an actor has some
  custom action that has show_in_plain = True, this action would also be
  rendered now below a summary. The currently only use case of this is the "Mark
  all as seen" action of lino.modlib.notify.Message

- About method :meth:`Model.as_list_item` : this approach has the disadvantage
  that HTML is being rendered on the server, not on  the client. More data flow,
  and more server resources.

- Use cases for list_layout: products

- We added a detail layout to :class:`lino_xl.lib.albums.FileUsages`.

- We changed the :xfile:`settings.py` on jane::

    def get_plugin_configs(self):
        yield super(Site, self).get_plugin_configs()
        # example of local plugin settings:
        yield ('users', 'use_verify', True)
        yield ('notify', 'keep_unseen', False)
        yield ('notify', 'remove_after', 24*7)



How to restore a Borg backup to my computer
===========================================
