:date: 2021-05-20

======================
Thursday, May 20, 2021
======================

Lino at the HackerX event
=========================

Tonight I will attend `HackerX
<https://hopin.com/events/hackerx-tallinn-full-stack-may-20th>`_,  "the world's
largest invite-only networking & recruiting event for developers".  It is an
online event where developers can enter for free because they are actually what
is being sold to the customers. The customers are companies in search of new
human resources. I probably don't fit into their standard product pattern but
they did let me in. Nice.

Here is my self-presentation:

  Developer skills: Linux, Python, Django, Sphinx, Git, React.  Long-term
  experience in accounting, team management, sales agreements, website
  authoring.

  I am not only a Senior Developer, I am also CEO and one of the two owners of
  :ref:`rumma`. I started employing other developers in 2015 (see `my team page
  <https://www.saffre-rumma.net/team/>`__).

  I am the author and maintainer of the :ref:`Lino framework <lf>`. I have been
  working on this vision my whole life. I am not going to stop working on it.

  I attend to HackerX in the hope of finding my future boss and employer, an
  existing legal person who would take over our company and bring Lino to the
  next level.

  So I am a job seeker with special conditions: you need to convince me that you
  believe in :ref:`the Lino vision <lino.vision>` and will continue
  collaborating with our existing customers and employees.

(Edit: I later used above thoughts for my :doc:`/about/hire` page.)

I explained "What is Lino?" in 5 minutes to about 15 humans. It was a good
exercise and a vitalizing evening. As expected I didn't find any partner, which
just confirms that :term:`private corporations <private corporation>` are no
candidate for Lino.

Tweaking the docs about Lino
============================

I am having the minor issue that :cmd:`inv bd` writes all the pages each time
again and again, even when I changed only one word in one page of my blog.

The :func:`atelier.sphinxconf.configure` now adds the 'sphinx.ext.autodoc' and
'sphinx.ext.autosummary' extensions only when the project's :envvar:`SETUP_INFO`
contains a 'name' key. It's a good thing to avoid loading autodoc when it is not
needed, but this didn't fix my problem.

One visitor recommended to use plain black as font color. I fully disabled the
:file:`linodocs.css` file added by :mod:`lino.sphinxcontrib.logo`. If it turns
out that we still want some of the features in this file, we should anyway
reimplement them in a more flexible way. At the moment we have a copy of
:file:`linodocs.css` in every doctree.


Simulate a HTTPS server on your development machine
===================================================

Sharif is testing desktop notifications. We installed a simulated production
server on his machine, and I wrote a Howto page for this in the Contributor
Guide: :ref:`book.contrib.https`.
