:date: 2021-05-21

.. include:: /../docs/shared/include/defs.rst

====================
Friday, May 21, 2021
====================

After several weeks of heavily reviewing the Lino documentation in general, I am
trying to calm down. The job is not finished, but I am tired of writing *about*
Lino.  I prefer to *write* free software than to write *about* it. But before
focussing back to the real things, I want to get the CI pipelines on GitLab
green again.

The documentation about Lino is currently stored in at least five repositories,
and their URLs are automatically added as intersphinx targets to every doctree
that uses :func:`lino.sphinxcontrib.configure`::

    im['lf'] = ('https://www.lino-framework.org/', None)
    im['cg'] = ('https://community.lino-framework.org/', None)
    im['ug'] = ('https://using.lino-framework.org/', None)
    im['hg'] = ('https://hosting.lino-framework.org/', None)
    im['book'] = ('https://dev.lino-framework.org/', None)

These URLs are duplicated in another file,
:xfile:`docs/shared/include/part_of_lino.rst`, which adds my blog.

The Rumma & Ko company website is *not* part of the Lino docs because our
long-term vision is to create a :ref:`lsf` who governs Lino while :ref:`rumma`
would just be one :term:`development provider` among many others.

I added a substitution definition for the |external-link| button, which  the
:term:`React front end` uses for the action that "liberates a slave", i.e. opens
a :term:`slave panel` in its own :term:`data window`.

Oops, the :class:`pi-button` class used by the |external-link| button (and all
other icons from PrimeIcons) was in the :xfile:`linodocs.css` file, which I
removed some days ago. I resurrected it in a new :xfile:`atelier.css`, which
comes automatically with atelier.


voga1r demo : cannot enroll existing client in existing activity
================================================================

Main problem is that it doesn't work in the online demo. Not reproducible in
current roger demo.

Another problem is usability: users must guess that they need to go to the
*Activities* tab and then click the [external-link] button of the "Enrolments in
Activities of Hans Altenberg (MEL) (Also Cancelled)" panel where they have an
"Insert" button. The fix to this problem is probably straightforward: just say
"summary" or "html" instead of "grid" for the courses.EnrolmentsByPupil slave
table.

display_mode "html" is good, "summary" isn't what they want. But the html
display mode is not beautiful in React. I will create another ticket for that.

Another thing to do : Voga needs a user type "Participant", and a participant
should see the courses to which they are enrolled, should be able to apply for
enrolment in a course, stop an enrolment, manage their presences, ...

About pronto, mercato and ciao
==============================

I moved pronto from GitHub to GitLab.  :ref:`gh2gl` The pronto project doesn't
contain much work, but it might wake up one day and it is part of the known
contributor repositories installed by getlino. But the mercato and ciao projects
didn't contain any significant work and I started to forget them: getlino
actually never knew them. I deleted them on GitHub.
