:date: 2021-05-23

====================
Sunday, May 23, 2021
====================


Sharif and I had a three-hours session for :ticket:`3049` (Websocket connection
in React for notifications).  Before this, Saturday, we had a historic meeting
where Hamza joined us and presented what he had done on :data:`use_websockets`
two years ago.

.. currentmodule:: lino.modlib.notify

Now Sharif and I moved :data:`use_websockets` and :data:`use_push_api` from
:class:`Site` to the :mod:`lino.modlib.notify` plugin. They are no longer site
attributes but plugin options.  The :mod:`lino_book.projects.chatter` demo
project will be the only place where

The :data:`use_push_api` option means that Lino uses the  `Push API
<https://www.w3.org/TR/push-api/>`__ for sending notifications.

I installed pywebpush and ngrok (pronounced [en-grok]) on my machine.
https://ngrok.com/docs#name


We had some fiddling with git because I still don't fully understand how to work
with remote branches.  Some excerpts to be integrated into :ref:`dev.git`::

  $ git branch --track remote_branch

  $ git stash save
  Saved working directory and index state WIP on master: 0d9947c2 fix 2 warnings term not in glossary
  $ git stash pop

  $ git branch -u origin/blurry blurry
  Branch 'blurry' set up to track remote branch 'blurry' from 'origin'.


  $ git branch -u origin/blurry blurry
  error: the requested upstream branch 'origin/blurry' does not exist
  hint:
  hint: If you are planning on basing your work on an upstream
  hint: branch that already exists at the remote, you may need to
  hint: run "git fetch" to retrieve it.
  hint:
  hint: If you are planning to push out a new local branch that
  hint: will track its remote counterpart, you may want to use
  hint: "git push -u" to set the upstream config as you push.

How to fetch a remote branch and start tracking it::

  git fetch git@gitlab.com:lino-framework/lino blurry:blurry

How to see whether my branches are remote::

  git branch -vv

Situation: I am on master. Sharif created and pushed a new remote branch blurry.
To see his work, I do::

  git checkout -b blurry origin/blurry

See `man git checkout`.
