:date: 2021-06-02

=======================
Wednesday, June 2, 2021
=======================

As a side effect of my work as a Python developer for Lino I often receive job
offers. I generalized the statement I wrote :doc:`0520` and  used those thoughts
in my new :doc:`/about/hire` page.


The :cmd:`inv bd` for getlino is  `failing on GitLab
<https://gitlab.com/lino-framework/getlino/-/jobs/1307346960#L220>`__. I can
reproduce the problem on my computer as follows.

- Deactivate my :file:`~/.atelier/config.py`.

- In my terminal::

    go getlino
    pip uninstall atelier
    pip install atelier
    inv clean -b bd


The :xfile:`conf.py` file of the getlino docs is not yet converted to the "new
style". But that shouldn't be the problem.

If calls :func:`atelier.sphinxconf.interproject` as follows::

  from atelier.sphinxconf import interproject
  interproject.configure(globals(), 'atelier')


The problem was caused by a bug in :meth:`atelier.projects.Project.get_xconfig`.
For projects that were loaded from a python module installed from pypi (i.e.
without a :xfile:`tasks.py` file) it ignored the hard-coded default values.

The problem appeared only now because I had recently removed the  line
``doc_trees = ['docs']`` from the :xfile:`__init__.py` file of several main
modules.  I removed it because it caused useless complexity: everybody knows
that the default value for :envvar:`doc_trees` is `['docs']` and we shouldn't
repeat this.

I released atelier 1.1.39 to PyPI

Note that the ``test`` job for getlino still fails on GitLab. This is another
story. It says::

  ./prep.sh: line 11: docker: command not found

We simply need to also install the docker system package. We can use their
`convenience script
<https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/debian/#install-using-the-convenience-script>`.
