:date: 2021-06-05

======================
Saturday, June 5, 2021
======================

Fixing #4185
============

Yesterday Sharif and I had a session where we discovered issue :ticket:`4185`.
I had no idea at this moment and gave this to Sharif. Later he commented:

 Basically they all have the same: "type": "Father(Mother)" in the href. Even if
 the type were correct, it wouldn't still work because react weren't
 acknowledging these values. ...

That comment made me tilt. I commented:

  Ha! I understood (maybe !) : we need to call BaseRequest.clear_cached_status()
  before rendering each button. Read the docs and explore. Maybe you understand.
  Ask questions if it isn't clear.

Now I found time to verify it myself.  Indeed this was the explanation of the
issue.  Fixing the issue itself was less than two minutes of work.

But this little bug has been living there for more than a year. And the test
suite didn't complain.  That's the real problem. And another problem is that
Sharif had no chance to understand what I was talking about, at least not in
reasonable time.

So before changing any code, I wrote a test case that reproduces the problem:
:ref:`reproduce.4185`.

En passant I converted the developer docs about :mod:`lino_xl.lib.humanlinks`
from autodoc to prosa. And I fixed a cosmetic bug, a missing space: Lino said
"Father(Mother)" instead of "Father (Mother)".

TODO: write end-user documentation.

Here are my code changes:

- 2021-06-05 05:36 in *book*:
  `5ad1ece <git@gitlab.com:lino-framework/book.git>`__
  (fixing #4185 (reproduce the issue))

- 2021-06-05 05:42 in *xl*:
  `cd03f93 <git@gitlab.com:lino-framework/xl.git>`__
  (fix #4185)

- 2021-06-05 05:42 in *book*:
  `4594e20 <git@gitlab.com:lino-framework/book.git>`__
  (fixing #4185 (reproduce the issue))

- 2021-06-05 06:35 in *xl*:
  `8a9dd7a <git@gitlab.com:lino-framework/xl.git>`__
  (convert humanlinks docs to prosa)

- 2021-06-05 06:36 in *book*:
  `d0d387d <git@gitlab.com:lino-framework/book.git>`__
  (convert humanlinks docs to prosa)

Here is how this test was failing before I fixed the
issue::

  $ doctest docs/specs/humanlinks.rst
  **********************************************************************
  File "docs/specs/humanlinks.rst", line 88, in humanlinks.rst
  Failed example:
      print(links[8])  #doctest: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE +ELLIPSIS
  Expected:
      <a href='javascript:Lino.humanlinks.LinksByHuman.insert.run(...
      "type": "Adopted son(Adopted daughter)"...">Adopted son</a>
  Got:
      <a href='javascript:Lino.humanlinks.LinksByHuman.insert.run(null,{ "base_params": { "parent": 218, "type": "01" }, "data_record": { "data": { "child": null, "childHidden": null, "disabled_fields": {  }, "parent": "Mr Lars Braun", "parentHidden": 218, "type": "Father(Mother)", "typeHidden": "01" }, "phantom": true, "title": "New Personal Link" }, "record_id": null })' style="text-decoration:none" title="Open a dialog window to insert a new Personal Link.">Adopted son</a>
  **********************************************************************
  1 items had failures:
     1 of  18 in humanlinks.rst
  ***Test Failed*** 1 failures.


Dockerizing Lino
=================

Hannes and I had a session about dockerizing Lino.


We wrote a new dockerfile to deploy a running Lino noi server::

  $ docker build -t lino -f Dockerfiles/deploy .

debian_updated : this is to avoid installing lots of debian packages again and
again when testing.  If I haven't working getlino for a while it can make sense
to build a fresh image::

  $ go getlino
  $ docker build --no-cache -t debian_updated -f Dockerfiles/debian_updated .
  ...
  Successfully tagged debian_updated:latest


Here is where we stopped::

  $ docker build -t lino -f Dockerfiles/deploy .
  ...
  Successfully installed BTrees-4.9.1 ZConfig-3.6.0 appy-1.0.7 bleach-3.3.0 docopt-0.6.2 num2words-0.5.10 persistent-4.7.0 transaction-3.0.1 zc.lockfile-2.0 zodb-5.6.0 zodbpickle-2.0.0
  mysql -u root  -e "create user 'mysite1'@'localhost' identified by '4zz4o1ga5xA';"
  ERROR 2002 (HY000): Can't connect to local MySQL server through socket '/var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock' (2)
  Error: mysql -u root  -e "create user 'mysite1'@'localhost' identified by '4zz4o1ga5xA';" ended with return code 1
  The command '/bin/sh -c getlino startsite --batch noi mysite1' returned a non-zero code: 1



Upgrade on Jane
===============

We had a strange issue after upgrading Jane:

  TypeError: t.state.site_data.choicelists['system.DashboardLayouts'] is undefined

The issue vanished after replacing one ``this`` by ``window.App``.

makedocs failed because one template (:file:`conf.tpl.py`) is not included in
the sdist.
