:date: 2021-06-16

========================
Wednesday, June 16, 2021
========================

insipid ticket #50
==================

With Matthias' help I fixed `insipid ticket #50
<https://github.com/mgeier/insipid-sphinx-theme/issues/50>`__.


The request's session was deleted before the request completed
==============================================================

After clicking the submit button of the insert window of a comment (POST to
`/api/comments/CommentsByRFC`) I got once more a red notification message
(saying something I didn't manage to read).

The Lino log says::

  202106-16 06:26:24 INFO [kernel 7902 140385269999488] : run_action luc comments.CommentsByRFC.submit_insert Ticket #4213 ('#4213 (☐ Font size becomes bigger when I tap on link)') []
  202106-16 06:26:25 WARNING [log 7902 140385269999488] : The request's session was deleted before the request completed. The user may have logged out in a concurrent request, for example.: /api/comments/CommentsByRFC
  Traceback (most recent call last):
    File ".../env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/contrib/sessions/backends/db.py", line 87, in save
      obj.save(force_insert=must_create, force_update=not must_create, using=using)
    File ".../env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/db/models/base.py", line 727, in save
      force_update=force_update, update_fields=update_fields)
    File ".../env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/db/models/base.py", line 765, in save_base
      force_update, using, update_fields,
    File ".../env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/db/models/base.py", line 848, in _save_table
      raise DatabaseError("Forced update did not affect any rows.")
  django.db.utils.DatabaseError: Forced update did not affect any rows.

  During handling of the above exception, another exception occurred:

  Traceback (most recent call last):
    File ".../env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/contrib/sessions/middleware.py", line 61, in process_response
      request.session.save()
    File ".../env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/contrib/sessions/backends/db.py", line 94, in save
      raise UpdateError
  django.contrib.sessions.backends.base.UpdateError

  During handling of the above exception, another exception occurred:

  Traceback (most recent call last):
    File ".../env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/core/handlers/exception.py", line 47, in inner
      response = get_response(request)
    File ".../env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/utils/deprecation.py", line 119, in __call__
      response = self.process_response(request, response)
    File ".../env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/contrib/sessions/middleware.py", line 64, in process_response
      "The request's session was deleted before the "
  django.contrib.sessions.exceptions.SessionInterrupted: The request's session was deleted before the request completed. The user may have logged out in a concurrent request, for example.

In `this thread on stackoverflow
<https://stackoverflow.com/questions/46982576/the-requests-session-was-deleted-before-the-request-completed-the-user-may-hav>`__
they suggest miscellaneous explanations, but none of them seems to apply here.
Jane uses the database for storing sessions, and I am quite sure that I didn't
log out in some other tab.

>>> from django.conf import settings
>>> settings.SESSION_ENGINE
'django.contrib.sessions.backends.db'

::
  $ pip freeze | grep Django
  Django==3.2.4

  $ pip install -U mysqlclient Django
  Requirement already satisfied: mysqlclient in ./env/lib/python3.7/site-packages (2.0.3)
  Requirement already satisfied: Django in ./env/lib/python3.7/site-packages (3.2.4)
  Requirement already satisfied: sqlparse>=0.2.2 in ./env/lib/python3.7/site-packages (from Django) (0.4.1)
  Requirement already satisfied: pytz in ./env/lib/python3.7/site-packages (from Django) (2021.1)
  Requirement already satisfied: asgiref<4,>=3.3.2 in ./env/lib/python3.7/site-packages (from Django) (3.3.4)
  Requirement already satisfied: typing-extensions in ./env/lib/python3.7/site-packages (from asgiref<4,>=3.3.2->Django) (3.7.4.3)


Actually the first problem in above traceback is `DatabaseError: Forced update
did not affect any rows`, when something tries to save the current session.

The following line of the traceback looks interesting::

    File ".../python3.7/site-packages/django/utils/deprecation.py", line 119, in __call__
      response = self.process_response(request, response)

That code uses asyncio, so I wonder whether the problems might come because the
notify plugin uses `asgiref.sync.async_to_sync`. But hasn't it been doing that
already earlier? That question remains open for my next session.

I create a new comment "new comment for testing" and click "Create". Sometimes
it works and sometimes it doesn't work. When it doesn't work, then it actually
did create the comment, but

The problem seems to have disappeared after setting
:attr:`lino.core.site.Site.use_multiprocessing` to `False`.


Just as a reminder, here are the new features Lino on which we are working

- push api
- use multiprocessing when notifying others
- dashboard layouts
- delayed values
- sync google api for calendar and contacts
- optimizations of react front end
