:date: 2021-06-23

========================
Wednesday, June 23, 2021
========================

Slave tables and delayed values
===============================

I fixed :ticket:`4222`, which was caused by my recent changes :ticket:`4046`.

I started a new topic guide about :ref:`book.topics.delayed_values`, which also
contains a test case that (probably) would have covered this issue.

A :term:`slave table` can be a valid :term:`data element` of a :term:`detail
layout`, and it is named `foos.Foos` (i.e. with a dot). And also the
corresponding store field will be named `foos.Foos` (not `foos_Foos`), i.e. the
names of store fields don't need to be valid Python attribute names.


Diátaxis workshop
=================

Documentation should be structured under the following four top-level entries:

- **Tutorials** (aka "Get started") should be: clear, have a concise outcome, ...
- **How-to guides** (Recipes) should be reproducible, cheat sheet
- **Reference** (Technical specs, description of what exists) should be
  correct, complete, excludes instruction and explanation, answers to facts (not the needs of the reader)
- **Explanation** (aka "Topics", "Background", "Discussion") offer context, establishes connections, the bigger
  picture, history

This differs e.g. from established systems like
`Darwin Information Typing Architechture <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Darwin_Information_Typing_Architecture>`__.

Each top-level index might be divided by "areas of usage".
Think like a shop owner: put the interesting and tempting topics at the front.

Q: Where to put the different audiences of readers?
A: Consider them as being completely different manuals.
E.g. end users, developers, contributors, training providers, hosters... one manual for each of them
