:date: 2021-07-09

====================
Friday, July 9, 2021
====================

I committed my recent work on :manage:`makedocs` (:ticket:`4172`).  I started to
understand a few things.  Time to write some documentation.

:manage:`makedocs` now generates only the actor pages (and an index page), IOW a
page per actor but no more pages per model and per plugin. That's because actor
pages are the only ones to be opened by the help button. Each actor page should
directly refer to the relevant places in the :term:`reference documentation` and
the :term:`user guide`.

Note that :term:`reference documentation` is a new glossary term. We should say
:term:`reference documentation` instead of :term:`developer guide` because this
kind of documentation is actually not only for developers, they are also for
:term:`key users <key user>`. These "reference docs" are currently integrated
into the :term:`developer guide`, but this might change.

I moved the logic for loading help texts at startup into a separate class
:class:`lino.core.help.HelpTextsLoader`. The HTL is instantiated temporarily by
the :meth:`lino.core.kernel.Kernel.kernel_startup`. The makedocs command
instantiates it another time because it also uses the first paragraph of actor
class descriptions, which the kernel does not store. All this is still
experimental.

One day we should move all this help stuff into a separate plugin
(:mod:`lino.modlib.help`) and make it an optional feature.

To make my work more visible we should start to update the demo sites more
often, and to run makedocs each time there. Here it gets related to the
:ticket:`2480` ticket: it would be cool to have an impressive series of Lino
demo sites on Heroku, each with a usable user guide....

My goal for this time is that when clicking on the :guilabel:`?` button, Lino
opens a page that is actually useful for an :term:`end user`.  Or more precisely
a page that *has a chance* to be useful, when documentation is written
accordingly.  Because that's another pair of shoes: defining the right
conventions and habits of *where* to write *what*. This is currently still a big
mess, and reviewing all docs is a big work. But I am advancing...

TODO: Test whether translation actually works.
