:date: 2021-07-24

=======================
Saturday, July 24, 2021
=======================

I worked on :ticket:`3301`. While generating service reports was almost done and
is probably just a question of configuration, the new feature will be to have
:ref:`noi` automatically generate yearly (or monthly) invoices for membership
fees. Something very subtle is missing there, or just not well documented.  I
will now commit a set of changes that are work in process. I kind of get
prepared for the big coup.

Changes for now:

.. currentmodule:: lino_xl.lib.invoicing

Changed the label for :class:`StartInvoicing` and subclasses :guilabel:`Create
invoices` to :guilabel:`Generate invoices`.

New plugin attribute :attr:`Plugin.order_model` to generalize what :ref:`tera`,
:ref:`voga` and :ref:`presto` did until now in three :term:`plugin extensions
<plugin extension>`, which were suspiciously similar.  The `invoicing` plugins
in voga, tera and presto are no longer used.

New plugin attribute :attr:`Plugin.three_demo_areas` to formulate the only
difference between the :term:`plugin extensions <plugin extension>`: In Voga the
:fixture:`demo` fixture creates only one invoicing area while other applications
have three invoicing areas.

I removed two unused method definitions :meth:`get_invoiceable_amount` in tera
and voga.

I optimized some translations, which had an unexpected side effect: quite some
time ago I moved the `roger` variant of voga from voga to book. And only now,
after having done :cmd:`inv mm` in voga, the translations of the texts in this
variant disappeared.

TODO:

- replace :meth:`get_invoiceable_product` altogether by :meth:`get_invoicing_tariff`?
- rename "flatrate" (the verbose name for :class:`Tariff`) to "invoicing rule".
- implement the new InvoiceGenerator methods on orders.Order
