:date: 2021-08-27

=======================
Friday, August 27, 2021
=======================

I am working on compound ticket :ticket:`4302` for :ref:`cosi`. This page is my
progress summary.

WAITING:

- Remove the "payment method" field. We don't use it in Così. --> Not sure
  whether we want this. Think more. Maybe we can use the payment method also in
  a simple Così.

DONE:

- Add phones plugin to Cosi
- "Introductive text" should be printed before the table of items. And the field
  label is not translated to German.
- Remove the VAT class "vehicles" in bevat and bevats
- Show the VAT rate in the designations of VAT classes
- intra-community sales invoice were not booked correctly in bevat

- Enter and register a purchase invoice doesn't work when the accounting period
  doesn't exist. (Not reproducible. I guess that this was a misdiagnosis)

- The :meth:`__str__` of an unregistered invoice used to say "jnl.ref #id", but
  that's irritating. Note the :attr:`hide_editable_number
  <lino_xl.lib.ledger.RegistrableVoucher.hide_editable_number>` feature: We
  usually don't want to see the number of a voucher in an editable state because
  that number may change. Now the  :meth:`__str__` of an unregistered invoice
  shows `(Sales invoice #1)` instead of `(VKR #1)`, which was indeed dangerously
  similar to `VKR 1/2021`.  And it's true that not only the number might change
  but also the journal.

- The icon of the :attr:`toggle_state` action is not rendered in ExtJS


TODO:

- Adapt the payment date when voucher_date changes.
  Must wait for :ticket:`4305`.

- Export the list of intracom customers (:term:`intra-community statement`) to
  XML (the well-known :ticket:`2406`).

- Write a data checker to report duplicate or missing invoice numbers

- When hitting :kbd:`Insert` in a grid view of invoice items, the new item
  should get inserted before the currently selected row.
  Requires a change in the framework.
