:date: 2022-01-20

==========================
Thursday, January 20, 2022
==========================

Migrating a Jekyll site from GitHub to GitLab
=============================================

I worked on :ticket:`4345` the https://gitlab.com/alvatal/www project (which I
am migrating from https://github.com/alvatal/alvatal.github.io )

After having added my :file:`.gitlab-ci.yml` file, the content gets rendered correctly at
https://alvatal.gitlab.io/www/
but the `news page <https://alvatal.gitlab.io/www/news/>`__
is still empty.

Edmund helped me to discover the :file:`planet.yml` file. But for some reason,
this file was obviously being used on GitHub somehow "automatically". I need to
add something to my :file:`.gitlab-ci.yml` file.

While searching for an answer, I stumbled into


How to setup the link that our readers can use to subscribe to our (aggregated)
news feed:  `simple <https://jekyllcodex.org/without-plugin/rss-feed/>`__ and
`more sophisticated
<https://learn.cloudcannon.com/jekyll/rss-and-atom-feeds/>`__.

The instructions on `bluesabre.org
<https://github.com/bluesabre/planet.bluesabre.org>`__ look interesting, but it
seems that Lauri had found a simpler solution.

The instructions on https://github.com/feedreader/planet.rb look even closer.
But still they don't seem to be the final solution.

Or here: https://github.com/feedreader/pluto/tree/master/pluto

I no longer believe that GitHub has this as a magic default feature.  Next step
is to look with Edmund in the settings of the GitHub project. Maybe there are
some customization in the GitHub settings that are not stored as files in the
repo.
