:date: 2022-03-14

======================
Monday, March 14, 2022
======================

The GitLab CI for laudate is failing with message
:message:`rST localisation for language 'et' not found`.

Where does it come from::

  $ grep -R "rST localisation" /home/luc/virtualenvs/py38/lib/python3.8/site-packages/
  .../site-packages/docutils/parsers/rst/languages/__init__.py:    warn_msg = 'rST localisation for language "%s" not found.'


Yes, I remember that some time ago I fixed this locally by add a language file
"et" to my local docutils installation as explained in
http://docutils.sf.net/docs/howto/i18n.html

But I am not going to do this on GitLab. How to add a language to docutils?

The optimal way would be  `to contribute
<https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/dev/repository.html>`__. But that would
take a lot of time time, and I want a quick fix.

I see that :class:`docutils.languages.LanguageImporter` has an  attribute
:attr:`packages`, which is a tuple of prefixes::

    packages = ('docutils.languages.', '')

So I might add this :file:`et.py` to my project directory instead of adding it
to the :file:`docutils/languages` directory. But if I manage to add
``'atelier.sphinxconf'`` to that tuple, I might get my quick workaround.

I made two PyPI releases in this direction before I realized that I would have
to do the same patch for
:class:`docutils.parsers.rst.languages.RstLanguageImporter`.

Oh no. Enough hacking around! I will rather `start contributing to docutils
<https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/dev/repository.html>`__!

Get started::

  $ cd ~/repositories
  $ svn checkout https://svn.code.sf.net/p/docutils/code/trunk docutils-code
  $ pip install -e docutils-code/docutils

First problem: The :cmd:`pip install -e` says::

  ERROR: pip's dependency resolver does not currently take into account all the packages that are installed. This behaviour is the source of the following dependency conflicts.
  sphinx 4.4.0 requires docutils<0.18,>=0.14, but you have docutils 0.19b0.dev0 which is incompatible.
  sphinx-rtd-theme 1.0.0 requires docutils<0.18, but you have docutils 0.19b0.dev0 which is incompatible.

A stupid dependency bug: sphinx and sphinx-rtd-theme fail to work with the
development version of docutils.  OMG! So I should ideally now contribute to
these as well! First question is: why do they require "<0.18"? Shouldn't they
simply remove this requirement?   Okay I can work around this by saying::

  pip install -e --no-warn-conflicts .

But I also submitted a ticket for it:
https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/issues/10264
