:date: 2022-06-18

=======================
About sales notes
=======================

Saturday, June 18, 2022

Sales notes

First use case: a sales note is being paid cash immediately. We don't know
anything about the customer.

=========================== ======== ========= ==========
Account                     Debit    Credit    Partner
=========================== ======== ========= ==========
701000 sales of goods                    100 €
570000 cash                    100 €
=========================== ======== ========= ==========

Second case: client pays with credit card or online payment. Here we know the
partner (at least his card number), and the API communication with the bank has
been done during :meth:`register` (otherwise the voucher would not have been
registered).

=========================== ======== ========= ==========
Account                     Debit    Credit    Partner
=========================== ======== ========= ==========
701000 sales of goods                    100 €
400000 clients receivable      100 €           somebody
400000 clients receivable                100 € somebody
570100 credit card payments    100 €
=========================== ======== ========= ==========

Third case. The payment fails. We say "Okay, take your goods and we trust you to
come back tomorrow and pay in cash".  Just set :term:`payment method` to
"invoice" or "later". Lino should book this:

=========================== ======== ========= ==========
Account                     Debit    Credit    Partner
=========================== ======== ========= ==========
701000 sales of goods                    100 €
400000 clients receivable      100 €           somebody
=========================== ======== ========= ==========

When the customer returns later the same day and pays cash, we register a
**payment without sale**. This is just a sales note without any product. Lino
should automatically show in the :attr:`balance_before` virtual field. And since
there are no items, the :attr:`balance_to_pay` will be the same.

=========================== ======== ========= ==========
Account                     Debit    Credit    Partner
=========================== ======== ========= ==========
400000 clients receivable                100 € somebody
570000 cash payment            100 €
=========================== ======== ========= ==========

If the client forgets to return and to pay, we will automatically issue an
invoice.

Next use case: we have an agreement with the client that they receive a monthly
invoice for all sales. Two sub-cases: (a) client pays on each delivery or (b)
client pays only when invoice comes.

In both cases we have already the money (or a proof that promises that we will
get money), but we still need to write an invoice. The payment should *not*
clear with the sales note but with the invoice.

When (a), we do have the cash without invoice. **Invoices to issue**
