:date: 2022-09-07

============================
Wednesday, September 7, 2022
============================

I tried once more to upgrade my Tuxedo notebook from Ubuntu 18.04 to something
newer. I ran :cmd:`do-release-upgrade` multiple times after disabling all the
custom PPAs. Still no success. Tuxedo themselves say quite clearly that I must
rather backup everything and then reinstall a new Linux.

::

  $ sudo apt update
  [sudo] password for luc:
  Get:1 http://ppa.launchpad.net/libreoffice/ppa/ubuntu bionic InRelease [20,8 kB]
  Hit:2 https://installer.id.ee/media/ubuntu bionic InRelease
  Get:3 https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu bionic InRelease [64,4 kB]
  Get:4 https://updates.signal.org/desktop/apt xenial InRelease [2 315 B]
  Get:5 https://linux.teamviewer.com/deb stable InRelease [11,9 kB]
  Get:6 http://oibaf.tuxedocomputers.com/ubuntu bionic InRelease [3 197 B]
  Get:7 http://deb.tuxedocomputers.com/ubuntu bionic InRelease [3 187 B]
  Get:8 https://packages.riot.im/debian default InRelease [2 892 B]
  Hit:9 http://graphics.tuxedocomputers.com/ubuntu bionic InRelease
  Get:10 https://packages.microsoft.com/repos/ms-teams stable InRelease [17,5 kB]
  Get:11 http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-security InRelease [88,7 kB]
  Hit:12 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic InRelease
  Get:13 https://updates.signal.org/desktop/apt xenial/main amd64 Packages [13,8 kB]
  Get:14 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-updates InRelease [88,7 kB]
  Get:15 http://ppa.launchpad.net/libreoffice/ppa/ubuntu bionic/main amd64 Packages [33,7 kB]
  Get:16 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-backports InRelease [74,6 kB]
  Get:17 http://ppa.launchpad.net/libreoffice/ppa/ubuntu bionic/main i386 Packages [33,7 kB]
  Get:18 http://deb.tuxedocomputers.com/ubuntu bionic/main amd64 Packages [23,3 kB]
  Get:19 http://deb.tuxedocomputers.com/ubuntu bionic/main i386 Packages [11,6 kB]
  Get:20 https://packages.riot.im/debian default/main amd64 Packages [959 B]
  Get:21 https://packages.microsoft.com/repos/ms-teams stable/main amd64 Packages [9 361 B]
  Get:22 http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-security/main amd64 Packages [2 389 kB]
  Get:23 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-updates/main amd64 Packages [2 729 kB]
  Get:24 http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-security/main i386 Packages [1 233 kB]
  Get:25 http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-security/main Translation-en [414 kB]
  Get:26 http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-security/main amd64 DEP-11 Metadata [55,2 kB]
  Get:27 http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-security/restricted amd64 Packages [884 kB]
  Get:28 http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-security/restricted Translation-en [122 kB]
  Get:29 http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-security/universe i386 Packages [1 035 kB]
  Get:30 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-updates/main i386 Packages [1 533 kB]
  Get:31 http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-security/universe amd64 Packages [1 228 kB]
  Get:32 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-updates/main Translation-en [503 kB]
  Get:33 http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-security/universe Translation-en [282 kB]
  Get:34 http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-security/universe amd64 DEP-11 Metadata [61,1 kB]
  Get:35 http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-security/multiverse amd64 DEP-11 Metadata [2 464 B]
  Get:36 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-updates/main amd64 DEP-11 Metadata [296 kB]
  Get:37 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-updates/restricted amd64 Packages [913 kB]
  Get:38 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-updates/restricted Translation-en [126 kB]
  Get:39 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-updates/universe amd64 Packages [1 842 kB]
  Get:40 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-updates/universe i386 Packages [1 625 kB]
  Get:41 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-updates/universe Translation-en [399 kB]
  Get:42 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-updates/universe amd64 DEP-11 Metadata [302 kB]
  Get:43 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-updates/multiverse amd64 DEP-11 Metadata [2 468 B]
  Get:44 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu bionic-backports/universe amd64 DEP-11 Metadata [9 268 B]
  Fetched 18,5 MB in 6s (3 175 kB/s)
  Reading package lists... Done
  Building dependency tree
  Reading state information... Done
  62 packages can be upgraded. Run 'apt list --upgradable' to see them.

::

  $ sudo apt upgrade
  Reading package lists... Done
  Building dependency tree
  Reading state information... Done
  Calculating upgrade... Done
  The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
    linux-hwe-5.4-headers-5.4.0-109 linux-hwe-5.4-headers-5.4.0-110 linux-hwe-5.4-headers-5.4.0-113 linux-hwe-5.4-headers-5.4.0-117 linux-hwe-5.4-headers-5.4.0-120
    linux-hwe-5.4-headers-5.4.0-121
  Use 'sudo apt autoremove' to remove them.
  The following NEW packages will be installed:
    linux-headers-5.4.0-125-generic linux-hwe-5.4-headers-5.4.0-125 linux-image-5.4.0-125-generic linux-modules-5.4.0-125-generic linux-modules-extra-5.4.0-125-generic
  The following packages have been kept back:
    open-eid
  The following packages will be upgraded:
    curl element-desktop fonts-opensymbol gir1.2-notify-0.7 libcurl3-gnutls libcurl4 liblibreoffice-java libnotify-bin libnotify4 libreoffice libreoffice-base
    libreoffice-base-core libreoffice-base-drivers libreoffice-calc libreoffice-common libreoffice-core libreoffice-draw libreoffice-gnome libreoffice-gtk3
    libreoffice-help-common libreoffice-help-de libreoffice-help-en-gb libreoffice-help-en-us libreoffice-impress libreoffice-java-common libreoffice-l10n-de
    libreoffice-l10n-en-gb libreoffice-l10n-en-za libreoffice-math libreoffice-nlpsolver libreoffice-report-builder libreoffice-report-builder-bin
    libreoffice-script-provider-bsh libreoffice-script-provider-js libreoffice-script-provider-python libreoffice-sdbc-firebird libreoffice-sdbc-hsqldb libreoffice-sdbc-mysql
    libreoffice-sdbc-postgresql libreoffice-style-colibre libreoffice-style-elementary libreoffice-style-tango libreoffice-style-yaru libreoffice-wiki-publisher
    libreoffice-writer libuno-cppu3 libuno-cppuhelpergcc3-3 libuno-purpenvhelpergcc3-3 libuno-sal3 libuno-salhelpergcc3-3 libunoloader-java linux-generic-hwe-18.04
    linux-headers-generic-hwe-18.04 linux-image-generic-hwe-18.04 linux-libc-dev python3-uno signal-desktop tzdata uno-libs-private ure ure-java
  61 upgraded, 5 newly installed, 0 to remove and 1 not upgraded.
  8 standard security updates
  Need to get 413 MB of archives.
  After this operation, 368 MB of additional disk space will be used.
  Do you want to continue? [Y/n]
  ...
  update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-5.4.0-125-generic
  I: The initramfs will attempt to resume from /dev/sda3
  I: (UUID=d8772344-2a32-4995-8575-f47bfe8da338)
  I: Set the RESUME variable to override this.
  /etc/kernel/postinst.d/zz-update-grub:


::

  sudo apt remove xserver-xorg-video-nouveau
  Reading package lists... Done
  Building dependency tree
  Reading state information... Done
  The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
    libbsh-java libel-api-java libhsqldb1.8.0-java libjsp-api-java libservlet-api-java libservlet3.1-java libwebsocket-api-java libxatracker2 libxvmc1
    xserver-xorg-video-amdgpu xserver-xorg-video-ati xserver-xorg-video-fbdev xserver-xorg-video-intel xserver-xorg-video-qxl xserver-xorg-video-radeon
    xserver-xorg-video-vesa xserver-xorg-video-vmware
  Use 'sudo apt autoremove' to remove them.
  The following packages will be REMOVED:
    xserver-xorg-video-all xserver-xorg-video-nouveau
  0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 2 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
  After this operation, 328 kB disk space will be freed.
  Do you want to continue? [Y/n]

::

  Checking for installed snaps

  Calculating snap size requirements
  No candidate ver:  linux-image-5.4.0-56-generic
  No candidate ver:  linux-modules-5.4.0-56-generic
  No candidate ver:  linux-modules-extra-5.4.0-56-generic
  No candidate ver:  megasync
