:date: 2022-09-15

============================
Thursday, September 15, 2022
============================

This is the first blog entry written on my new notebook computer, a Lenovo Yoga.

:cmd:`inv clean -b bd` in my blog takes now 1 real minute instead of 3,
:cmd:`inv prep` in book takes now 3m52 instead of 15m48, that's 3 to 4 times
faster.

Atom editor
===========

I used Ubuntu's snap to install "snappyatom". But then uninstalled it and
downloaded the deb installer from Atom project instead. Don't know what snap
wanted to make snappier, and the snappy variant didn't find my existing atom
config files.

Oops! Then I saw that Atom is being discontinued! What a pity!

- https://github.blog/2022-06-08-sunsetting-atom/
- https://www.ghacks.net/2022/06/09/githubs-atom-text-editor-will-be-retired-in-december/

Yes, it was predictable.  Atom is a competitor for Microsoft Visual Studio.
Atom was being developed mainly by GitHub. GitHub was bought by Microsoft. It's
a typical Microsoft strategy for eliminating their competitors: they buy them.
And even a free software product is vulnerable to this when it is being
developed by a single legal person.

Let's try Eric. Looks nice, but it keeps saying:

  Could not download the requested file from
  https://eric-ide.python-projects.org/plugins7/repository.xml.

  Error: TLS initialization failed

Probably related to the following warnings in the console::

  qt.tlsbackend.ossl: Incompatible version of OpenSSL (built with OpenSSL 1.x, runtime version is >= 3.x)
  qt.network.ssl: The backend "cert-only" does not support QSslKey
  qt.network.ssl: Active TLS backend does not support key creation

::

  $ openssl version
  OpenSSL 3.0.2 15 Mar 2022 (Library: OpenSSL 3.0.2 15 Mar 2022)

Nah. Sorry, Eric, I'll stay with Atom right now. I guess that anyway somebody
will continue at least its maintenance.

Yet another warning:

  python-tools was unable to find your machine's python executable.

  Please try set the path in package settings and then restart atom.

  If the issue persists please post an issue on
  https://github.com/michaelaquilina/python-tools/issues/new

  Error: spawn python ENOENT

Solution: :menuselection:`Edit --> Preferences --> Packages`


VirtualBox
==========

On my new computer I said::

  $ sudo apt install virtualbox

When I then started VirtualBox on my :file:`.vdi` file, it said:

  Kernel driver not installed (rc=-1908)

  The VirtualBox Linux kernel driver is either not loaded or not set up
  correctly. Please reinstall virtualbox-dkms package and load the kernel module
  by executing

  'modprobe vboxdrv'

  as root.

  If your system has EFI Secure Boot enabled you may also need to sign the
  kernel modules (vboxdrv, vboxnetflt, vboxnetadp, vboxpci) before you can load
  them. Please see your Linux system's documentation for more information.

  where: suplibOsInit what: 3 VERR_VM_DRIVER_NOT_INSTALLED (-1908) - The support
  driver is not installed. On linux, open returned ENOENT.


Solution::

  $ sudo apt reinstall virtualbox-dkms

This told me that my "system has UEFI Secure Boot enabled" and prompted me to
enter a password. It didn't reboot automatically, but my guts told me to say::

  $ sudo reboot now

And during the boot process I had a little menu inviting me to "register" some
"modification key".

Next problem:

  The virtual machine execution ran into a non-fatal problem as described below.
  We suggest that you take appropriate action to prevent the problem from
  recurring.

  The image file '/usr/share/virtualbox/VBoxGuestAdditions.iso' is inaccessible
  and is being ignored. Please select a different image file for the virtual DVD
  drive..

Solution::

  $ sudo apt install virtualbox-guest-additions-iso

A last remark, it took me some time to re-understand the following informative
message:

  The virtual machine window will be now switched to Scale mode. You can go back
  to windowed mode at any time by pressing Host+C.

  Note that the Host key is currently defined as Right Ctrl.

  Note that the main menu bar is hidden in scaled mode. You can access it by
  pressing Host+Home

I checked the "Don't show this again" checkbox. And later I disabled the "Host
key" in the VirtualBox preferences. I use the :kbd:`Right Ctrl` key quite often,
so it was disturbing to have it not operate the usual way.

Sphinx
======

Could not import extension sphinxcontrib.yt (exception: No module named 'sphinxcontrib.yt')
