:date: 2022-09-29

============================
My third time at HackerX
============================

Thursday, September 29, 2022

Yesterday I went once more to HackerX, an event where developers can enter for
free because they are actually what is being sold. The customers are companies
in search of new human resources. I probably don't fit into their standard
product pattern but they invited me. Nice. See also :doc:`May 2022
</blog/2022/0517>` and :doc:`May 2021 </blog/2021/0520>`.

.. sigal_image:: 2022/09/img_20220928_190509.jpg|thumb|

This time there was an employer for whom I would agree to work: `Eesti Energia
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eesti_Energia>`__, the public energy company in
Estonia. I had only a few minutes of talk with them. I started by saying "So you
are the ones who burn down Estonia's forests. What a shame!" They seemed to be
used to that one, they even added oil shale mining, and I admitted "it's true
that the real culprit is the EU who tells everybody that burning wood is a good
thing." I also managed to explain them that I am not for sale without Lino, how
Lino might be useful for them and how I might help them to use Lino. All kind of
projects where multiple users need to collect, verify, process or query some
data.

All other employers were :term:`private corporations <private corporation>`; I
didn't even *try* to talk to them. Being an employee means that you give your
time and energy away for some higher purpose. The purpose of Eesti Energia is to
provide electricity to everybody in Estonia. That's a purpose I can imagine to
work for. But the purpose of every private corporation is to maximize the profit
of its investors. I'll never belong to such a purpose! I explained this several
times to other developers. Most of them were younger than me.

But as expected, I met several interesting people among the other developers.
There was Kristjan, who might give me a free crash course on the
Progress/OpenEdge SQL query tool. There was that guy from Brasil who loves
Estonia because you can walk around in the city at 10pm with your cell phone in
your hand and nobody will steal it. There was the guy who surprised me because
he came from Estonia but didn't speak Estonian.  The Russian-speaking Estonians
are a similar to the German-speaking Belgians in that they are a bridge between
two cultures.  There was Aleksandr, another Russian-speaking Estonian, who
didn't know that there is a country named Belgium, despite the fact that their
geography teacher made them cite the NATO members by heart.
