======================
Sunday, April 12, 2015
======================

Summary of my week
==================

- This week did not bring many code changes. Which is a good sign
  because it means that both Eupen and Châtelet start to calm down.

- I sent an almost finished version of an important offer to one of my
  customers for a project which would add lots of functionality to
  :ref:`welfare`.  If the project gets accepted, this means another
  year or two of almost full-time work for me. And as a consequence,
  :ref:`cosi` and :ref:`noi` would have to continue to wait for
  helping brains.  On the other hand this project will merge Lino's
  accounting modules (:mod:`lino.modlib.accounting` et alii) into
  :ref:`welfare`.

- I wrote about `Why software must be free <http://hw.saffre-rumma.net/fs/index.html>`__
  and got feedback which would need to be integrated into this
  document. I am not sure whether it is worth the work (I should
  rather *write* free software than writing *about* it), but maybe
  I'll continue a bit.

- Rumma & Ko is now
  `member of Alvatal <http://alvatal.ee/business/>`_, the
  Estonian Free and Open-Source Software Association.


My plans for the coming week:

- Start to work on the annual accounting report 2014 (uhh)

- Continue to find an assistant. This includes posting job offers,
  updating the web sites, public relations, contacts with partners.

- Continue on :ref:`noi` because I believe we will need a ticketing
  system which is more customizable than Trac and features a usable
  integrated time tracker.

- Danny would love to see his TIM data in a :ref:`cosi` instance. He
  would then try start to use it.
