======================
Sunday, April 19, 2015
======================


#136 Diverse Optimierungen Schuldnerberatung
============================================

Finished the last items of :ticket:`136`:


- Vorschau: Alle Verpflichtungen in einer einzigen Tabelle
  (Gruppensumme pro Partner ist nicht nötig).  

- Ausdruck: Verpflichtungen in zwei Tabellen:

  - "Schulden/Zahlungsrückstände/Kredite"
  - "Gerichtsvollzieher und Inkasso"

- Vorschau und Ausdruck: Schulden nicht mehr mit jeweils einer eigenen
  Tabelle pro Gerichtsvollzieher bzw. Inkassounternehmen.

- Übersetzung "Yearly amount" = "Jährl. Betrag"

- Im Ausdruck, Tabelle "Monatliche Ausgaben" : Kolonne "yearly amount"
  streichen.

- Bei Duplizieren von Konten wird die Seite nicht automatisch
  aktualisiert.

- Partnernummern in Klammern nur bei Klienten, nicht z.B. Anwälten
  oder Schuldnern.


WONTFIX:

- Vorschau: Neue Tabelle "Aktiva, Vermögen, Kapital"

Restored the test suite and checked in. Updated :ref:`demos` on :ref:`lf`.

Using diagrams
==============

Annabell asked me to write a "functional specification" for a new Lino
project.  I am not yet sure whether they mean a `functional
specification
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Functional_specification>`_ or rather a
`Software Requirements Specification
<https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_Requirements_Specification>`_
(SRS).

Here is my summary of what I found 

- A functional specification is a document which describes the requested
  behavior of a software system or a module, including the procedures by
  which it can be determined that the requirements have been met.
- A functional specification does not define the inner workings of the
  proposed system; it does not include the specification of how the
  system function will be implemented. Instead, it focuses on what
  various outside agents (people using the program, computer
  peripherals, or other computers, for example) might "observe" when
  interacting with the system. A typical functional specification
  might state as follows:

    When the user clicks the OK button, the dialog is closed and the
    focus is returned to the main window in the state it was in before
    this dialog was displayed.

- One of the main values of writing specifications is to have them
  reviewed by stakeholders and to allow the stakeholders to provide
  feedback. Therefore, specifications should be written in such a way
  that they can easily be read and reviewed.


TODO: try `sphinxcontrib.blockdiag
<http://blockdiag.com/en/blockdiag/sphinxcontrib.html>`_
