=========================
Wednesday, April 29, 2015
=========================

News from outside
=================

A `Gartner <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gartner>`_ market analysis
`The State of Open-Source RDBMSs, 2015
<http://www.gartner.com/technology/reprints.do?id=1-2DTR05J&ct=150421&st=sb>`_
(found via `IT World Canada
<http://www.itworldcanada.com/article/gartner-relational-open-source-databases-come-of-age/374181>`__)
comes to a conclusion which I like (except for the vocabulary
problem): "Open-source relational DBMSs have matured significantly and
can be used to replace commercial RDBMSs at a considerable TCO
saving. Information leaders, DBAs and application development
management can now consider them as a standard choice for deploying
applications."

(The vocabulary problem is that they say "Open Source" where they
wanted to say "Free" or "Libre". I guess that the main reason for this
vocabulary problem is that the word "free" also means "free of charge"
while "libre" is too new.)

Shekhar was the first to speak me about `Paramiko
<https://github.com/paramiko/paramiko>`_. I did not yet understand why
it might be useful for me.


Working on :ticket:`150`
========================

Working on :ref:`lf`. To (hopefully) fix the "SITE.kernel is None"
problem.  I introduced usage of an reentrance lock for
:meth:`lino.core.site.Site.startup`.

We still need a `_startup_done` attribute because Django "somehow"
imports the `settings` module twice. I didn't understand it
definitively, but without this we had the startup code being run
twice, which caused error messages about duplicate label in workflow
setup.


After yesterday's revert (`git rev-list -n1 --before=2015-04-25
master | xargs git checkout`) of my repositories on :ref:`lf`, I
didn't yet manage to tell git that now I want to go back to the
master as default branch. When I run "git pull" (without more
parameters), then I get::

    You are not currently on a branch. Please specify which
    branch you want to merge with. See git-pull(1) for details.

        git pull <remote> <branch>
    
I think that the solution was simply ``git checkout master``.

Changed Apache configurations so that it serves the static files. I
hope that I can serve all static files from one place.

Oops, yet another surprise: the :file:`lino.css` file had a hard-coded
expectation that static files are served from `/static/`.  That's why
we now have :data:`lino.core.constants.ICON_NAMES`, a protection
against specifying unknown icon names in
:attr:`lino.core.actions.Action.icon_name`, and these style
definitions are now inserted into the `index.html` page. (The latter
is a bit suboptimal: we might build a single :file:`lino.css` file at
Site startup (like the :xfile:`linoweb.js`).

And yet another surprise: I finally had to tidy up where the passport
image read from eId cards are stored and how to access them.
This is now done in :class:`lino.modlib.beid.mixins.BeIdCardHolder`.

Here is also an interesting post which gives more examples of why
static files should be managed specially: `Stop Using STATIC_URL in
Templates
<http://staticfiles.productiondjango.com/blog/stop-using-static-url-in-templates/>`_
