=================================
20150520 (Wednesday, 20 May 2015)
=================================

Since I made a release in Chatelet yesterday, I would like to tell
them what has been done. Now it is time for :ticket:`208`: I want to
select all tickets for which there has been at least one session
during the given period.

This is another application of what I have been doing yesterday:
:class:`lino.modlib.clocking.models.TicketHasSessions`.

Note that this is another example of inter-plugin collaboration: the
:mod:`clocking <lino.modlib.clocking>` plugin adds a filter criteria
to a table of the :mod:`tickets <lino.modlib.tickets>` plugin.

Started a new chapter `Plugin collaboration
<http://lino-framework.org/dev/plugin_collaboration.html>`__ in the
Developer's Guide.

Release on :ref:`lf`.
Last release there was 2015-05-14 at 17:14.

Changing the default font-size used by TinyMCE
==============================================

While working on :ticket:`237`, I tried to upgrade to TinMCE 4. The
integration is done (TinyMCE 4 is now included in the Lino
repository), but it is not actually used because it doesn't yet work
(see :data:`lino.modlib.tinymce.TINYMCE3`).

Changed the name of `static/tinymce` to `static/byteforce`.

Aha, this is probably the key to success: `content_css
<http://www.tinymce.com/wiki.php/Configuration3x:content_css>`__
(whose docstring contains a section "Changing the editor default font
size and font dropdown")

But it doesn't seem to change anything. Maybe because I a using
TinyMCE 3.4.8 and not the latest 3.x (which is 3.5.11)? Upgraded Lino
to include TinyMCE 3.5.11, but that doesn't help, either.


