========================
Wednesday, June 10, 2015
========================

The ``novat`` branch is still not ready for getting merged to
``master``.

The following snippet shows a strange phenomen whose explanation took
me a whole day:

.. literalinclude:: 0610.py

The :class:`vatless.PartnerDetailMixin
<lino.modlib.vatless.mixins.PartnerDetailMixin>` is designed to work
also in applications which do not have :mod:`lino.modlib.vatless`
installed. So the :attr:`ledger
<lino.modlib.vatless.mixins.PartnerDetailMixin.ledger>` panel (the
only thing defined by this mixin) must be a **dummy panel** in that
case.  I used a :class:`DummyField <lino.core.fields.DummyField>` for
this, but forgot that the "value" of a DummyField is always `None`.

Remember: When you want to define a dummy data element on a layout,
don't use :class:`DummyField <lino.core.fields.DummyField>` but
:class:`DummyPanel <lino.core.layouts.DummyPanel>`.

A new contributor
=================

Sandeep did his first code contribution: he fixed a bug which caused
:manage:`initdb` to fail on a fresh Lino development installation
because it tried to delete the SQLite database file
:xfile:`default.db` even though no such file existed.  This
contribution is not visible in the repository since he described it in
an email to me (and it was just one line of code). But I am glad to
welcome the third code contributor to Lino!

merge novat to master
=====================

The `novat` branch in Lino and Lino Welfare finally passes the test
suite. It is time to merge it into master.

Verify that your working directory is clean::

    $ git status
    On branch novat
    nothing to commit, working directory clean

Switch to master::

    $ git checkout master
    Switched to branch 'master'
    Your branch is up-to-date with 'origin/master'.    

Merge `novat` into `master`::

    $ git merge novat
    Updating dcb644c..0d689c5
    Fast-forward
     AUTHORS.txt                                                |   4 +
     docs/.static/myalabaster.css                               |  24 +++
     ...
     49 files changed, 2174 insertions(+), 1309 deletions(-)
     create mode 100644 docs/.static/myalabaster.css
     delete mode 100644 lino/modlib/ledger/fixtures/demo.py
     rename lino/modlib/ledger/fixtures/{mini.py => minimal_ledger.py} (98%)
     create mode 100644 lino/modlib/ledger/fixtures/welfare_demo.py
      ...

Delete the `novat` branch since it is no longer needed::
    
    $ git branch -d novat
    Deleted branch novat (was 0d689c5).

Push these manipulations to the public repo::

    $ git push

Upgrade on demos.lino-framework.org
===================================

I upgraded the demo applications on :ref:`lf`.


Fixed two bugs:

- :meth:`lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.get_printable_context` now
  adds `ar` and `E`.

- :meth:`lino.modlib.tickets.Ticket.full_clean` now fills project only
  if it is not empty.
