=====================
Sunday, June 14, 2015
=====================

Takayuki Shimizukawa asked me to test whether Eric Larson's pull
request is still okay regarding `#1061
<https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/issues/1061>`_.  


First challenge for me was to activate Eric's pull request.  I tried
to configure Erics fork as a remote to my working copy, but didn't
really advance...  Here is how I finally did it::

    $ mv sphinx sphinx-main
    $ git clone https://github.com/Eric89GXL/sphinx.git
    Cloning into 'sphinx'...
    remote: Counting objects: 40969, done.
    remote: Total 40969 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0), pack-reused 40969
    Receiving objects: 100% (40969/40969), 12.39 MiB | 1.12 MiB/s, done.
    Resolving deltas: 100% (31193/31193), done.
    Checking connectivity... done.
    $ git checkout fix-no-members 
    Branch fix-no-members set up to track remote branch fix-no-members from origin.
    Switched to a new branch 'fix-no-members'
    $



The problem I needed to fix with `#1061
<https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/issues/1061>`_ was that Sphinx
was documenting also imported members of a module. Especially in
modules which have the following line::

  from django.db.models import Q

So I re-built the Lino docs using Eric's version. Seems to work.  For
example :mod:`lino.modlib.vat.models` does not mention any imported
things from Django.

But there was another issue which accidentally got committed together
with this problem.

So I also wrote a test case to see whether Sphinx tells me the source
file when an error orrurs when executing the content of a
:mod:`rstgen.sphinxconf.insert_input`.  The following renders as a
paragraph containing "1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9":

.. py2rst::

  for i in range(9):
      print(i+1)
  print()

My manual test consists in adding a syntax error into above code
snippet, trying to build my blog and verifying that the file name and
line number of the syntax error are being reported correctly.

Everything seems to work.

Oops, I noticed only later that I have to switch to the
`fix-no-members` branch above. But fortunately the result was the
same.

TODO: add a test case for Sphinx which tests the above automatically.
