=======================
Thursday, June 18, 2015
=======================

Avoiding locale warnings
========================

When working on a customer's server in an SSH terminal I often had
warning messages like :message:`man: can't set the locale; make sure
$LC_* and $LANG are correct`.

It seems that the culprit was the following line in my
:file:`/etc/ssh/ssh_config` file::

  SendEnv LANG LC_*

I fixed my problem by uncommenting this line.  Since my customers use
different versions and configurations of Debian, they have different
lists of locales installed.


Making daily snapshots
======================

Here is my template of a bash script for making daily snapshots of a
Lino database: :linosrcref:`bash/make_snapshot.sh`

However, the current version is a time bomb: it creates a new zip file
every day. I am still looking for a way of automatically tidying up
these files using configurable rules similar to those used by
logrotate:

- create a new file every day at a specified time
- for snapshots older than 1 week, keep only those made on Fridays
- for snapshots older than 2 months, keep only the last of the month

Oops, the answer was given `in a post by mark on serverfault.com
<http://serverfault.com/questions/196843/logrotate-rotating-non-log-files>`_:
I can use logrotate for it. It's only a question of
configuration. Marks gives a comprehensive example and a short
explanation of the options.

Here is how I configured it now in Eupen::

    $ cat /etc/logrotate.d/snapshot
    /var/backups/lino/mysite/snapshot.zip {
        rotate 50
        nocompress
        dateext
        dateformat _%Y%m%d
        extension .zip
        missingok
    }

Here is how to test whether it seems to work::

  $ sudo logrotate -d /etc/logrotate.d/snapshot

I also checked the timimg: the ``make_snapshot.sh`` cron job is run
every morning at 2:00 while ``logrotate`` runs at 6:52. That sounds
correct.

TODO: 

- This is not yet 100% of what we want. It just keeps an archive of
  the last 50 days and deletes older ones.  That's better than
  everything else we had until now, but actually we would like to keep
  one backup per week during a longer period, e.g. one year.
