=======================
Saturday, July 11, 2015
=======================

Bryan Lunduke invested several days to find out whether he is missing
out on anything by not running Windows 10 as his primary operating
system. Short answer: no. More detailed answer in `A Linux user tries
out Windows 10
<http://www.networkworld.com/article/2904365/opensource-subnet/a-linux-user-tries-out-windows-10.html>`_.

I afterwards read his article `11 pointless but awesome Linux terminal
tricks
<http://www.networkworld.com/article/2926630/linux/11-pointless-but-awesome-linux-terminal-tricks.html#slide12>`_
and installed ``sl``, ``lolcat`` and ``cmatrix``.  And I now even have
``fortune | lolcat`` in my :file:`.bashrc`.


Selecting the main template of a contract
=========================================

I understood that my first approach yesterday was not good and that
there is a better one.

Added a method 
:meth:`lino.modlib.excerpts.mixins.Certifiable.get_excerpt_templates`,
a field 
:attr:`lino_welfare.modlib.isip.mixins.ContractTypeBase.template`
and a method
:meth:`lino_welfare.modlib.isip.mixins.ContractBase.get_excerpt_templates`.

:class:`lino_welfare.modlib.jobs.models.ContractType` is no longer a
:class:`lino.modlib.printing.mixins.PrintableType` (because this was
:class:no longer needed, and because it defined a conflicting
:class:`template` field).

:class:`lino_welfare.modlib.jobs.models.Contract` has 3 fields less
because...


I wrote some docstrings, e.g.
:class:`lino_welfare.modlib.immersion.models.ContractType`.

There was some side effect in
:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.integ.fixtures.demo` which caused certain
contracts to be of same type. Fixing this resulted in more contracts
generated and thus caused quite some changes in the suite of tested
documents for Lino Welfare.

Excerpt types no longer need to have the "Default.odt" in their
`template` field because that's the build method's default value.

Checked in because the test suites now pass. TODO: actual content of
the two new templates in :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.immersion`.

