======================
Tuesday, July 28, 2015
======================

Changes in Lino Noi
===================

I worked on :ticket:`358` because I need to write a time estimation
for a wishlist with a dozen of tickets.

DONE:

- New ticket state :attr:`Talk
  <lino.modlib.tickets.choicelists.TicketStates.talk>`.

- New field `deadline` (DateField)
- TicketsToDo, TicketsToTalk, TicketsToTriage
  
- New settings module 
  :mod:`lino_noi.settings.public`
  provides readonly access under public URL.

- added a field "priority" (integer 0...100)

- added a field
  :attr:`lino.modlib.tickets.models.Project.assign_to`. PublicTickets
  now shows only unassigned tickets.

TODO:

- Remove field `modified` because that information is irrelevant. Add
  a field `touched` : the last time somebody worked on this
  ticket. This is either `created` or, if at least one session exists,
  the `end_time` of that session. And then a table `RecentTickets`
  makes sense.

- Remove field `private` because all tickets assigned to somebody
  become "private". Even assigned tickets should never contain private
  data in their description because the public interface just doesn't
  *list* them, it may still show them e.g. when they are referred to
  by a public ticket.

Releases to PyPI
================

I released :ref:`noi` for the first time on PyPI. Which requires new
newest Lino version, so I released also Lino 1.6.18


What the hell is a `BooleanStoreField`?
=======================================

I was notified that Tim Graham finally closed Django ticket `#15497
<https://code.djangoproject.com/ticket/15497>`_ (BooleanField should
work for all PostgreSQL expressions) which I opened four years ago.
Unfortunately I did not manage to find a good formulation and to write
a pull request quickly enough, so the docstring of
:meth:`Field.to_python` continues to fail to mention that is limited
to SQL expressions.  Maybe Tim is right when he says that this is
obvious.  I adapted my docstring for
:class:`lino.core.store.BooleanStoreField` to no longer refer to this
ticket because it is obviously unrelated.

I noticed that if ever some Django developer stumbles over this, they
will maybe ask "What the hell is a `BooleanStoreField`?" And they
would be right: the whole :mod:`lino.core.store` module is highly
subtle and poorly documented code.  So I tried to change its docstring
into something which has at least a *chance* to make sense to
interested developers.


Welfare test suite
==================

I repaired the Welfare test suite after several recent changes (mostly the 

:ref:`welfare.specs.users`
:ref:`welfare.specs.misc`
:ref:`welfare.specs.clients.eupen`
:ref:`welfare.specs.eupen`
:ref:`welfare.specs.general`
:ref:`welfare.specs.cv2`
:ref:`welfare.specs.cal`
:ref:`welfare.specs.polls`
:ref:`welfare.specs.immersion`

