=======================
Thursday, July 30, 2015
=======================

Optimizing Lino Noi
===================

I understood how to continue on :ticket:`343` (Änderungswünsche Juli
2015).  This ticket is "just" a request for a cost estimation for a
wish list with a dozen items. I already converted them into tickets in
our internal :ref:`noi` database.  Some of these wishes are small
optimizations and will be satisfied as part of the maintenance
contract. We don't need any estimation for these, they just go to our
:class:`lino.modlib.tickets.ui.TicketsToDo`.  Some other tickets
should become separate (small) projects.  And then Gerd will be able
to see them in the service report.  It needs just a small change to
:ref:`noi` in order to make this possible: :ticket:`379` (Add
planned_time and ticket_state to Service Report)

I also understood why Lino was still failing on Travis CI (see error
message yesterday). It was about :mod:`lino.projects.polly.settings`:
`doctests` must inherit from `demo`. I could reproduce this error on
my machine after deleting my :envvar:`LINO_CACHE_ROOT`.


Getting Lino to pass on Travis CI
=================================

And Lino is *still* failing on Travis. We get yet another error message::

  File "/home/travis/virtualenv/python2.7.9/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/test/runner.py", line 144, in run_tests
    suite = self.build_suite(test_labels, extra_tests)
  File "/home/travis/virtualenv/python2.7.9/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/test/runner.py", line 93, in build_suite
    tests = self.test_loader.discover(start_dir=label, **kwargs)
  File "/opt/python/2.7.9/lib/python2.7/unittest/loader.py", line 206, in discover
    tests = list(self._find_tests(start_dir, pattern))
  File "/opt/python/2.7.9/lib/python2.7/unittest/loader.py", line 267, in _find_tests

    raise ImportError(msg % (mod_name, module_dir, expected_dir))

  ImportError: 'tests' module incorrectly imported from '/home/travis/virtualenv/python2.7.9/lib/python2.7/site-packages/lino/projects/belref'. 
  Expected '/home/travis/build/lsaffre/lino/lino/projects/belref'. 
  Is this module globally installed?

Graham Klyne reported a similar problem in `Django test runner fails
in virtualenv on Ubuntu
<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/25775185/django-test-runner-fails-in-virtualenv-on-ubuntu>`__
(September 2014).  Yes, this seems to be a bug in Python's test
discovery which occurs when it is called with an explicit "." as start
directory. And Django's ``manage.py test`` command does exactly this.
It seems that this bug did not yet exist in Python 2.7.4 (the Python
2.7 I have installed). But Travis are using Python 2.7.9.

How to get Python 2.7.9 on an Ubuntu 14.04?
Seems not trivial:
http://serverfault.com/questions/669859/how-can-i-upgrade-python-to-2-7-9-on-ubuntu-14-4

But then an idea to maybe work around it: a little change in
:mod:`lino.utils.pythontest.TestCase.run_django_manage_test`.

- `Job 387 <https://travis-ci.org/lsaffre/lino/jobs/73289058>`_:
  AssertionError: python manage.py test --noinput --failfast ({'cwd':
  'lino/projects/belref'}) returned 1:

- `Job 389 <https://travis-ci.org/lsaffre/lino/builds/73297409>`_:
  AssertionError: python manage.py test
  /home/travis/build/lsaffre/lino/lino/projects/belref --noinput --failfast
  ({'cwd': 'lino/projects/belref'}) returned 1:

- `Job 390 <https://travis-ci.org/lsaffre/lino/jobs/73298401>`_:
  AssertionError: python manage.py test
  /home/travis/build/lsaffre/lino/lino/projects/belref --noinput --failfast
  ({'cwd': 'lino/projects/belref'}) returned

So unfortunately the problem persists. The unittest discoverer asks to
import a file :file:`tests.py` in a directory under
:file:`/home/travis/build/` and then complains because the imported
module's path is in a directory below
:file:`/home/travis/virtualenv/python2.7.9/`.

And neither abspath nor realpath can help here because my specified
working directory *is* the real path. It is the imported module's path
that should get canonized.


Miscellaneous
=============

- Added `printed` to the detail layout of `courses.Enrolments`

- The :attr:`ClientDetail.newcomers_left` panel is now available also
  for NewcomersOperator mainly because otherwise the
  AvailableCoachesByClient panel is not high enough.

- New method
  :meth:`lino.modlib.beid.mixins.Beidcardholder.make_demo_picture` was
  needed because after clearing my :envvar:`LINO_CACHE_ROOT` the missing
  picture file caused create_excerpt to fail.
