=================================
20150803 (Monday, 03 August 2015)
=================================

Actually I wanted to just work on :ticket:`313` (TinyMCE accepts
editing readonly fields), but I wanted to reproduce the problem
somewhere in Lino and happened to choose :mod:`lino.projects.cms` for
this.  Which made me stumble over a bundle of poorly documented
problems, and I did a little dive in order to fix them.  One of theese
problems was :ticket:`267` (obj2html() in Lino Noi).  It seems that
changing :attr:`root_urlconf <lino.core.site.Site.root_urlconf>` is no
recommended practice because when you have custom urls, then you also
want a custom renderer.
:meth:`lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.get_printable_context` no longer
makes a copy of itself with modified `renderer`, but ``ar`` again
points to the actual request.  To be observed. It seems that the known
problems are fixed. Here be dragons.

I then "fixed" :ticket:`313` by switching
:attr:`lino.modlib.tinymce.Plugin.media_name` back from TinyMCE 3.5.11 to
3.4.8.

A few options of TinyMCE had been hard-coded until now. Now they are
configurable:

- :attr:`window_width <lino.modlib.tinymce.Plugin.window_width>`
- :attr:`window_height <lino.modlib.tinymce.Plugin.window_height>`
- :attr:`field_buttons <lino.modlib.tinymce.Plugin.field_buttons>`
- :attr:`window_buttons1 <lino.modlib.tinymce.Plugin.window_buttons1>`

I also changed the default values for the first two options from
(600, 500) to (500, 400) because on a lower resolution monitor the old
size was too big, which was quite disturbing because there was no way
to close the window.


Finally I passed the whole day on tickets like :ticket:`270` (Links to
tickets using `:ticket:` role are broken) and :ticket:`387` (Final
sprint team.lino-framework.org) and can now proudly announce:

  http://team.lino-framework.org/

This is the publicly visible part of the ticketing and time-tracking
system (:ref:`noi` of course) for the Lino team.

What is the Lino team? I started to write an answer:
https://www.saffre-rumma.net/team.html


