==================================
20150804 (Tuesday, 04 August 2015)
==================================

Once again I could not refrain from doing yet another optimization to
:ref:`noi`: :ticket:`391` (Assign new tickets to reporter).
We have now a new user role :class:`lino.modlib.tickets.roles.Worker`.
En passant I repaired the test suite :ref:`noi.specs.clocking`.

Worked on :ticket:`321` (Modèles d'impression mai-juillet 2015).
Added new method :meth:`lino.utils.addressable.Adressable.has_address`
for usage in document templates.

Updated :xfile:`excerpts/Default.odt` to use that new method.


About LibreOffice form controls
===============================

The template of a printable document may contain `form controls
<https://help.libreoffice.org/Common/Form_Controls>`__ when using some
of the LibreOffice build methods defined in
:mod:`lino.modlib.appypod.choicelists`.  Of course these controls will
be editable only when the template is being rendered using an editable
method (i.e. either `.odt`, `.doc` or `.rtf`, but not `.pdf`).

We recommend to avoid this kind of usage since it causes data to be
stored in a generated printable document.  Whenever a printable
document contains semantic "formalizable" data, the preferred way is
to define this in the underlying database models.


'NoneType' object is not iterable
=================================

I tried once more to understand how to reproduce :ticket:`159` (ERROR:
'NoneType' object is not iterable).  Without success. But at least the
documentation grew a bit better, e.g. :meth:`Budget.entry_groups
<lino_welfare.modlib.debts.models.Budget.entry_groups>` now has a
docstring.



Better documentation for Lino Welfare
=====================================

I noticed that Lino Welfare had :attr:`tolerate_sphinx_warnings
<atelier.fablib.env.tolerate_sphinx_warnings>` set to True.

One of the problems was to get the icon for external links into
:ref:`welfare.tour.reception`.  I saw that FontAwesome includes such
an icon http://fortawesome.github.io/Font-Awesome/icon/external-link/
and that they use Unicode f08e for it.  Although Emacs displays ``C-x
8 RET f08e RET`` correctly on my monitor, the character "" does not
display correctly in the resulting html. Interesting.

The :ref:`welfare.tour.reception` page is now a first example of how
to use FontAwesome in a Sphinx tree.  TODO: move this into a Sphinx
extension (:ticket:`392`).



"My tasks" table shows tasks in far future
==========================================

Received and fixed :ticket:`393`
("My tasks" table shows tasks in far future).

In order to test this, I started a new chapter about
:ref:`welfare.specs.tasks` in the Specs.  Which caused once more an
avalanche of documentation changes, especially I re-united the models
of :mod:`lino_xl.lib.cal` back into a single module
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.cal`, and moved the tables to a new module
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.cal.ui`.


Nebenbuchhaltung Sozialhilfeausgaben
====================================

Unfortunately with all the above things, I did not yet manage to work
much on :ticket:`143` (Nebenbuchhaltung Sozialhilfeausgaben) I started
with some changes in :ref:`welfare.specs.accounting` which btw. currently
doesn't pass.  Checkin because it is time to go to bed.
