=======================
Monday, August 10, 2015
=======================

I continued on :ticket:`143`. I don't describe the details here
because it is rather complex intuitive work about how to integrate
ledger functionality into a Belgian PCSW.  In case of need we can
always analyze the checkins.

06:11 : Tadaa! I got the payment *instructions* to be suggested into
payment *orders*. Checkin to celebrate this. The Welfare test suite is
broken for minor reasons.


10.00 Repairing the test suite.  This turned out to not be complete
routine. It started innocently with a :message:`dump2html() got an
unexpected keyword argument 'master_instance'` error and caused
another inner framework optimization: I converted the module
`lino.core.web` into a plugin :mod:`lino.modlib.jinja`. Which is
currently needed by :mod:`lino.modlib.bootstrap3`, so currently it is
always installed. But it now becomes theoretically possible to replace
Jinja by some other templates engine, and (last but not least) the
whole thing is now much less hackerish than before.

A side effect: :class:`lino.modlib.appypod.appy_renderer.AppyRenderer`
no longer automatically fills all plugin names to the context when
rendering a template because this was a bad idea.  This "feature"
caused the context function `jinja` to be overridden.  Existing
templates may need update: if you get errors of style "foo.Bar :
undefined name 'foo'", then simply replace the code ``foo.Bar`` by
``rt.modules.foo.ar``.

The body template :xfile:`clothing_bank.body.html` is one of the
templates which needed update.  When trying to see whether it gets
correctly generated, I noticed that the links to examples of generated
demo documents in :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.aids` is currently broken.

