==========================
Wednesday, August 26, 2015
==========================

:ticket:`419` (Optionally log each database change to Lino logger) :
changed the format of the log message.

The first draft had been::

    INFO run_action <TableRequest cal.MyEvents.wf1({'user': u'rolf'})>
    
Now it is::    
    
    INFO run_action rolf cal.MyEvents.wf1 None [Event #537 (u'Termin #537 Auswertung (22.05.2014 08:30)')]

(i.e. the word "run_action" followed by the username, the action name, the master instance and the list of selected rows)

Supervisor
==========

Worked on :ticket:`341` (Supervisor) : new user profile
:class:`lino_welfare.modlib.welfare.roles.Supervisor`.

About "editable" actions
========================

Discovered a bug that would have been a spoiler in Eupen: the checkin,
receive and checkout actions (which are no longer readonly because we
want them to get logged via :ticket:`419`) had disappeared. This is
because we had the following
in :meth:`attach_to_actor <lino.core.actions.Action.attach_to_actor>`::

    if not actor.editable and not self.readonly:
        return False

This is possibly not the last side effect. of :ticket:`419`.  The
:attr:`readonly<lino.core.actions.Action.readonly>` attribute is
documented to mean "only changes *in the current object*". I don't
remember why this subtlety was needed.


Empfangsbeamte müssen den Reiter "Sonstiges" sehen können
=========================================================

Got an urgent ticket:
:ticket:`455` (Empfangsbeamte müssen den Reiter "Sonstiges" sehen können).

The panel's `required_roles` was indeed 
:class:`SocialStaff <lino_welfare.modlib.pcsw.roles.SocialStaff>`::

        required_roles=dd.required(SocialStaff)

I solved this by making it visible to 
:class:`ContactsStaff <lino.modlib.contacts.roles.ContactsStaff>`
as well:

    required_roles=dd.required((SocialStaff, ContactsStaff))

Note the subtlety in above code. The following code would *not* have
the expected result::

    required_roles=dd.required(SocialStaff, ContactsStaff)

because that would mean that *both* roles SocialStaff *and*
ContactsStaff are required. In this case we want to say that *one of*
either is enough.

Documentation
=============

I wrote a bit about :ref:`lino.datamig` and removed the
:attr:`tolerate_sphinx_warnings
<atelier.fablib.env.tolerate_sphinx_warnings>` from Lino's
:xfile:`fabfile.py`.


NameError: global name 'when_text' is not defined
=================================================

A simple bug had slipped through the test suite.  Fixing it was easy,
but it took me half an hour to make it reproduceable (in
:ref:`welfare.specs.cal`).
