=======================
Friday, August 28, 2015
=======================

Discovered and fixed :ticket:`467`.

Received and fixed :ticket:`471`.  This was simply a custom
:meth:`on_duplicate <lino.core.model.Model.on_duplicate>` method for
:class:`UserAuthored <lino.modlib.users.mixins.UserAuthored>`.  

En passant also a little API change: The :attr:`manager_roles_required
<lino.modlib.users.mixins.UserAuthored.manager_roles_required>` of a
:class:`UserAuthored <lino.modlib.users.mixins.UserAuthored>` must now
be an *iterable* of :class:`UserRole <lino.core.roles.UserRole>`
subclasses (when not `None`). Until now it was expected to contain a
single role, making it impossible to require several roles at once.

The above API change revealed a subtle problem which took me two hours
of research: The :mod:`lino.projects.min1` and
:mod:`lino.projects.min2` sites had their :attr:`user_profiles_module
<lino.core.site.Site.user_profiles_module>` set to
:mod:`lino.modlib.users.roles` and not to
:mod:`lino.modlib.office.roles`. Accordingly the user `robin` on these
sites should not see e.g. :class:`cal.MyEvents
<lino.modlib.cal.ui.MyEvents>` since this table requires
:class:`OfficeUser <lino.modlib.office.roles.OfficeUser>`.  For some
reason they saw it nevertheless. I guess it has to do with the fact
that the requirement sets for actor and action are being united in
:class:`BoundAction <lino.core.boundaction.BoundAction>` and that this
operation got inadvertently loosened.

I also wrote my first custom exception: :class:`ChangedAPI
<lino.core.exceptions.ChangedAPI>`.


I fixed :ticket:`465` by adding a section "Visibility of eID reader
actions" to :ref:`welfare.specs.eupen`.  This brought some
optimizations into :mod:`lino.utils.diag`:

- Makes now usage of an analyzer object which has some more methods.
- The list of window layouts no longer combines fields and visibility
  but shows two separate lists.
- The list of profiles produced by :func:`lino.utils.diag.visible_for`
  no longer uses "all except" when there are more profiles which don't
  see the action. And it no longer inserts commas between them. 

These details in formatting make things easier to manage when a test
case fails because something has changed.
