==========================
Tuesday, September 1, 2015
==========================

I activated `ledger`, `finan` and `vatless` for
:mod:`lino_welfare.projects.eupen` and released this to their
production site.  Which means that the first prototype of
:ticket:`143` has become visible.

Theoretically this change would not affect any existing user profiles
except `SiteAdmin`.  But in practice it did: most actors in these
modules did not yet have their `required_roles` set. Fixed.

I ran the following script to load
:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.ledger.fixtures.std` into their database::

    from lino_welfare.modlib.ledger.fixtures.std import objects
    for obj in objects():
        obj.full_clean()
        obj.save()


During the day Gerd reported a similar detail: :ticket:`480`.
Indeed :class:`lino.modlib.ledger.ui.DebtsByPartner` did not have 
`required_roles` set.

This made me discover and fix a subtle framework bug:
:class:`ShowSlaveTable <lino.core.actions.ShowSlaveTable>` must
"inherit" the :attr:`required_roles
<lino.core.permissions.Permittable.required_roles>` of the table.

Having set `required_roles` on the table, the button did not
disappear, but clicking on it no longer opened the window with the
table, only an error message in the JavaScript console::
    
  TypeError: Lino.ledger.DebtsByPartner.grid is undefined    
    
Explanation: the button was rendered since it did not inherit the
requirements.

I noticed that Lino still declared its development status as "beta".
It is of course a subjective decision, but for me "beta" is
definitively not true any more. Changed it to Stable and released the
good news to PyPI as version 1.6.19.
Also for :ref:`welfare`.

