===========================
Saturday, September 5, 2015
===========================

I continued with :ticket:`469` (Public web interface needs search and
pagination).

The :attr:`required_roles
<lino.core.permissions.Permittable.required_roles>` of
:class:`tickets.Tickets <lino.modlib.tickets.ui.Tickets>` is now
`set([])`, i.e. everybody would see all ticket tables.  Actually this
is not wrong, anyway we need to check per ticket whether it is visible
(because that depends on whether it is private or not).

I moved some bootstrap-specific code from :mod:`lino.core` to
:mod:`lino.modlib.bootstrap3`.

And cool!  :mod:`lino_noi.projects.bs3` becomes usable.  On
:class:`tickets.Tickets <lino.modlib.tickets.ui.Tickets>` I now use
the :attr:`detail_html_template
<lino.core.actors.Actor.detail_html_template>` attribute.  This is the
first proof of this idea.

En passant I discovered and fixed a baby bug in :meth:`disable_delete
<lino.core.model.Model.disable_delete>` which occurred in :ref:`cosi`
because there we have MTI without `Polymorphic`.  Also wrote a test
case to cover this.

The :xfile:`tickets/Ticket/detail.html` now filters out the
description of private tickets for people who have no right to see
them. That is, private tickets are actually not invisible. It is just
their description that's invisible.  (to be observed in practice)

TODO:

- add a search field to
  :func:`lino.modlib.bootstrap3.views.table2html`
- make more information visible to anonymous (e.g. sites, milestones,
  projects, session reports)?
- activate it for http://bugs.lino-framework.org/

Worked on :ticket:`498` (Http404: contacts.Persons has no row with
primary key u'1674') : changes in :xfile:`linoweb.js` and
:mod:`lino.modlib.extjs.views`.  

Noticed new ticket :ticket:`504` : The JSON API is currently not well
designed at all, it has just grown during the years with the
needs. TODO: change it into a well-documented public API.

