=====================================
20150915 (Tuesday, 15 September 2015)
=====================================

I stumbled over :ticket:`523` and investigated the reason.  We must
probably just add :attr:`param_values` to the inheritable attributes
to be copied to the other request (in :meth:`setup_from
<lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.setup_from>`).  I will not fix it now
since Hamza is working on :ticket:`520`. But I can write a test case
to reproduce it.

Links to tickets
================

I noticed that links to tickets didn't work any more after
:blogref:`20150911` because of :ticket:`469`. Fixed. That's probably
why Hamza didn't find :ticket:`521` yesterday. TODO: Note that I only
fixed it *quickly*, I replaced::

  extlinks.update(ticket=('http://bugs.lino-framework.org/ticket/%s', '#'))

by:

  extlinks.update(ticket=('http://bugs.lino-framework.org/tickets/Ticket/%s', '#'))

in my blog's :xfile:`conf.py` file.  A better solution would be to add
a custom url pattern to the public UI of Lino Noi and to maintain
existing links functional.

Ticket #159
===========

Steve managed to reproduce :ticket:`159` ('NoneType' object is not
iterable (after duplicating a budget)). It turns out that the symptom
of this problem was the same as that of :ticket:`471` (Become the
author after duplicating a budget): after duplicating a budget, the
author of the new budget should be the user who asked to duplicate it,
not the original author.

I extended :mod:`test_debts
<lino_welfare.projects.std.tests.test_debts>` to reproduce also this
problem.

A first subtle consequence for the framework: Changed the exception
handling during :meth:`TableRequest.execute
<lino.core.tablerequests.TableRequest.execute>`.  When an exception
occurs during :meth:`get_data_iterator`, then we want it to be
reported only once. This remains. But until now it was reported as a
direct call to :func:`logger.exception`. Now it is being forwarded
(re-risen). Because the old behaviour was hiding the real location, a
reason why :ticket:`159` had been so hard to find.

A second subtle consequence: the `known_values` attribute of a
:class:`TableRequest <lino.core.tablerequests.TableRequest>` had a
default value `None`, overriding the default value ``{}`` already
defined in :class:`lino.core.requests.BaseRequest`.  I guess that this
was not intended.

I also added some explanations in the docstring of
:meth:`lino.core.model.Model.on_duplicate`.


Ticket #523
===========

Since anyway I did some changes to Lino today (and since I hope that
there won't be any conflicts), I then fixed :ticket:`523`.  Most time
went (as usual) into writing a test case (in
:ref:`noi.specs.clocking`).  The actual bug was in
:meth:`lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.set_selected_pks`.  *En passant*
I also fixed the test suite (changes in :ref:`noi.specs.tickets`).

