=========================
Thursday, October 1, 2015
=========================

Hamza fixed #219
================

Congratulations to Hamza who found a solution for :ticket:`219`.  As
expected, the solution was just one line of code, but *finding the
explanation* required a good grasp of Lino's internals.  This bug was
not easy at all. Hamza, I am glad that you joined the Lino team!

A release for Châtelet
======================

I started to work on :ticket:`554`, but was interrupted because I got
feedback from Mathieu for :ticket:`538` which becomes urgent. They
even want a release as soon as possible (:ticket:`558`).  For
:ticket:`538` I will suggest two optimizations:

- dans le panneau "Octrois d'aide" (dans l'onglet PIIS) les colonnes
  utiles pour vous, càd Type d'aide, Catégorie, Date de la demande.
- Enlevé le champ "Type d'aide" dans l'onglet "Personne".

Some quick wins
===============

The release (:ticket:`558`) is scheduled for tonight. While we're
there, I try to advance some other quick wins. The first one is
:ticket:`547` I added a new table
:class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.ui.MyEventsToday` and modified
:meth:`lino_welfare.projects.chatelet.settings.Site.get_admin_main_items`.

Since :class:`MyEventsToday <lino_xl.lib.cal.ui.MyEventsToday>` has
its own translatable label, I ran :cmd:`fab mm`.  Then I noticed that
this was the first time after :ticket:`520`, and that both Hamza and I
had forgot to transfer the translations of all these accounting
modules. As long as :cmd:`fab mm` had not run, the message database
had not been updated from the source code.

Ticket :ticket:`536` must wait for feedback from Eupen. I guess that
they want it too (which would simplify things for us).

Mathieu started to create tickets
=================================

Congratulations to Mathieu who was the first non-developer who filed a
ticket (actually two: :ticket:`556` and :ticket:`557`) in our
database. Which of course revealed that it is time to add automatic
notifications. I created a new ticket :ticket:`559` for this.

