===========================
Wednesday, October 14, 2015
===========================

Deprecated behaviour
====================

The :attr:`django_settings_module
<lino.utils.pythontest.TestCase.django_settings_module>` attribute was
meant to solve exactly the same problem: how to specify the
:xfile:`settings.py` module to be used when testing a document using
doctest. I have the feeling that we should deprecate this old-style
and intransparent ("automagic") behaviour now that we have the new
`settings_modeul` argument for :func:`lino.startup`

I noticed that :mod:`lino.utils.pythontest` and
:mod:`lino.utils.djangotest` were missing in the API docs.
And yes, the :ref:`dev.testing` page is still very uncomplete.


About communication and Lino Noi
================================

It's now almost one week (:doc:`1008`) that I released the new
comments feature (:ticket:`522`). But we didn't yet start to use
it. Even *I* didn't. And actually I knew it in advance.

There are several good reasons why we didn't:

- Lino Noi will never replace individual communication channels
  (E-Mail, Chat)
- I seem to stick to my habit of writing in my daily blog using Emacs
  and Sphinx (:ref:`devblog`)

What do we want Noi to be?

- Lino Noi does not want to *replace* E-Mail and Chat clients, but it
  wants to *integrate* them. E-Mail and Chat clients stop to be
  optimal where more than two persons are involved into a discussion.
  Lino Noi wants to be a tool which sustains and keeps track of
  communication within a group.  

- Another basic goal is to have a knowledge database. That we can ask
  in five years "Did we have this problem already? How did we solve
  it?".

Questions to those who followed until here:

- Am I missing important goals?
- Are we reinventing the wheel with Lino Noi?

Some concretely missing features are:

- Notifications. Currently it is a hell because every little change
  generates an email to the reporter and the assigned user.

- Collect incoming mails and assign them to their ticket (i.e. that
  any user can forward any mail to an address (e.g.
  incoming@lino-framework.org), and these mails would go into our
  database and become visible to all other users. (This is partly
  implemented in :mod:`lino.modlib.smtpd` and
  :mod:`lino.modlib.outbox`. Something similar for collecting chat
  logs and interactive terminal sessions.

- Add some checkboxes "Blog", "chat" and "mail" on `clocking.Session`
  which indicate "there are traces of this session in the author's
  Blog, Chat or Email". Add a field `devblog_url_template` to
  `auth.User` and make the public interface generate automatic links
  to the blog entry.


#589
====

I started to work on :ticket:`589`. It is related to the following
message which comes each time when I register an invoice::

  INFO Found 0 VAT rules for %{'date': u'09.10.15', 'country': u'BE',
  'vat_regime': <VatRegimes.private:10>, 'vat_class': <VatClasses.normal:2>}!)

Yes, of course :mod:`lino_cosi.lib.tim2lino.fixtures.tim2lino` must
also create VAT rules.

The solution was to simply add :mod:`euvatrates
lino_cosi.lib.vat.fixtures.euvatrates>` to their :attr:`demo_fixtures
<lino.ciore.site.Site.demo_fixtures>`

So it turns out that :ticket:`589` was actually just another facet of
:ticket:`554`.  

Afterwards I continued to work on :ticket:`554`. This ticket is about
importing data of a TIM database into a Lino Così (more precisely a
:mod:`lino_cosi.projects.apc`).  Changes are mostly in
:mod:`lino_cosi.lib.tim2lino`.


En passant I updated some documentation.
