==========================
Saturday, October 17, 2015
==========================

Should we use Skype?
====================

Jack Wallen on `linux.com
<http://www.linux.com/news/software/applications/812894-best-voip-clients-for-linux-that-arent-skype>`_
mentions `Ekiga <https://ekiga.im/>`_ and `Linphone
<http://www.linphone.org/>`_ as primary alternatives for Skype.  He
says that "the major caveat to using any of these clients is that they
cannot make calls to Skype users (as Skype uses an undisclosed,
proprietary protocol)".  He correctly names some reasons why even
people like me use Skype: "Even though Skype was purchased by
Microsoft, it still remains one of the most user-friendly VOIP clients
available. And considering Skype’s user-base, it is often considered
the de facto standard software for the task. That doesn’t mean Skype
is your only choice. Yes, Skype works on Linux (and, for the most
part, works really well); but for those who’d rather choose an option
that’s open source (or simply not Microsoft-owned), I present to you a
few possible options to satisfy your VOIP needs."

He does not mention several reasons for *not* using Skype, like
security concerns or a vendor-locked history of your calls.


Using Git to fetch and merge Hamza's work
=========================================

(I continue to learn how to use Git)

Hamza pushed yet another commit (`13860692
<https://github.com/HamZuS/lino/commit/0d865925b02a8de94a57a42f797932f913860692>`_)
to his Lino repository, and I would like to merge it to my master (and
afterwards check whether he is correctly reported as the author of
this commit).

Here we go::

    $ git fetch hamza
    remote: Counting objects: 6, done.
    remote: Compressing objects: 100% (6/6), done.
    remote: Total 6 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0), pack-reused 0
    Unpacking objects: 100% (6/6), done.
    From https://github.com/HamZuS/lino
       12259ec..0d86592  master     -> hamza/master

    $ git merge hamza/master 
    Updating d6aff39..0d86592
    Fast-forward
     docs/tested/diamond2/django17.rst       |  7 +++--
     docs/tested/dynamic.rst                 |  6 +++-
     docs/tested/e006.rst                    |  2 +-
     docs/tutorials/addrloc/index.rst        |  6 +++-
     docs/tutorials/de_BE/index.rst          |  6 +++-
     docs/tutorials/polls/mysite/index.rst   |  8 +++--
     docs/tutorials/watch_tutorial/index.rst |  6 +++-
     lino/api/doctest.py                     |  5 ++-
     lino/api/shell.py                       |  4 +++
     lino/core/requests.py                   |  3 +-
     lino/core/site.py                       | 55 ++++++++++++++++++++++++---------
     lino/modlib/jinja/loader.py             |  6 +++-
     12 files changed, 88 insertions(+), 26 deletions(-)

Oops, that was more than one file! 

Yes of course, it took all changes to Lino which Hanza has made during
he started to work on :ticket:`38`.

Some of them are indeed good changes:

- Calling django.setup() in lino/api/doctest.py and lino/api/shell.py
  seems a great idea

- The change in lino/core/requests.py is good.

Some are less good, but it will be more efficient that I merge them
and then "adapt" them myself as I suggested (and then explain why):

- I don't like the changes in docs/tested/dynamic.rst and
  docs/tested/e006.rst  because AFTER17 is
  just a temporary name (we will remove it as soon as all production
  sites have been migrated). I'd rather suggest two methods
  `lino.core.model.Model.meta_get_fields()` and
  `lino.core.site.Site.get_models()` (and the latter should have a
  shortcut rt.get_models() in lino/api/rt.py

- Concerning the changes in lino/core/site.py I don't yet know whether
  I like them.

But it contains some changes which Hamza probably wanted to undo
before I merge them:

- The change in docs/tested/diamond2/django17.rst is an accidental
  no-op.

- The changes in docs/tutorials/addrloc/index.rst etc where you
  replace initdb_demo by syncdb turned out to be wrong

So for the moment I undo the whole merge::
    
    $ git reset --merge ORIG_HEAD
    (py27)luc@doll:~/work/lino$ git status
    On branch master
    Your branch is up-to-date with 'origin/master'.

    nothing to commit, working directory clean

Hamza might do this (without warranty)::

  $ git checkout docs/tested/diamond2/django17.rst
  $ git checkout docs/tutorials/addrloc/index.rst
  $ git checkout docs/tutorials/de_BE/index.rst
  $ git checkout docs/tutorials/polls/mysite/index.rst
  $ git checkout docs/tutorials/watch_tutorial/index.rst
  $ git commit -m "undo changes about initdb_demo"
  $ git push

Or (maybe better) I must find out how to do this myself...
