=========================
Tuesday, October 20, 2015
=========================

#596 : Split lino_xl.lib.sepa into "sepa_out" and "sepa_in"
=============================================================

New :ticket:`596`.  I realized that we will need to split the
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.sepa` module.  One part of it is just the fact of
maintaining a list of bank accounts of your business partners:
`Account` and `AccountsByPartner`.  The second part is about importing
data from the bank and having statements and movements on these
accounts. This is used only by :ref:`welfare`. In :ref:`cosi` we do
not want this functionality.  Another functionality (yet to write) is
that Lino sends payment orders to the bank.


Continued with tim2lino
=======================

Note: I have two tickets :ticket:`353` (Umstieg von TIM nach Lino) and
:ticket:`554` (first usage of tim2lino) which are partially redundant.
353 is declared as "depends on 554".

That customer currently uses TIM since A.D. 2000. The first two years
are still in BEF as currency before they switched to EUR. We decieded
that we can ignore these first two years when importing data to
Lino. Lino does not yet support multiple currencies, and for the
moment there is no user who might be interested in that feature, so
that task is sleeping.

The :mod:`tim2lino <lino_xl.lib.tim2lino.fixtures.tim2lino>` fixture
now ignores everything before 2002.

Still thinking about whether Matching.match should be a ForeignKey or
a CharField. I am far from being sure whether my thoughts on
:doc:`0929` were right. Currently I believe again that a CharField is
better...

Printing a sales invoice produced an empty document. Mainly because
the model name has chaged (to :class:`VatProductInvoice
<lino_xl.lib.sales.models.VatProductInvoice>`) some long time ago,
but I forgot to also rename the :xfile:`config` directory with the
template.

TODO:

- Print a payment reminder

- Two failures of the Cosi test suite (in `docs/tested/demo.rst` and
  `docs/tested/ledger.rst`) are failing due to my changes.


The navigation bar is back
==========================

Thanks to `Jeff McKenna who reacted to my post
<https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/sphinx-users/FeXo3VUGAns/discussion>`__
I "fixed" :ticket:`550` (though not in an elegant way).


Open source as a tool of cultural change
========================================

Oh, even the US government starts to understand why software must be
free: `Open source as a tool of cultural change
<http://opensource.com/government/15/10/ato-interview-kaitlin-devine-18f?utm_content=buffer38af4&utm_medium=social&utm_source=linkedin.com&utm_campaign=buffer>`__

It is funny that this website has a whole article which explains `What
is open source?  <http://opensource.com/resources/what-open-source>`_,
which completely ignores Richard Stallmann's vocabulary problem about
`Why Open Source misses the point of Free Software
<http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/open-source-misses-the-point.en.html>`__.


Merging Hamza's work on #505
=============================

Hamza did not know that I had been working on :ref:`cosi` as well. And
I thought that there would be no conflict because I was not working in
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.sepa`.  But it seems that I *did* some changes there::

    $ git merge hamza/master 
    Auto-merging lino_cosi/lib/sepa/ui.py
    Auto-merging lino_cosi/lib/sepa/models.py
    CONFLICT (content): Merge conflict in lino_cosi/lib/sepa/models.py
    Auto-merging lino_cosi/lib/sepa/__init__.py
    Automatic merge failed; fix conflicts and then commit the result.

As instructed `here <https://help.github.com/articles/resolving-a-merge-conflict-from-the-command-line/>`_, I must now manually resolve the conflict::

    $ e lino_cosi/lib/sepa/models.py

I actually just removed my changes since they were irrelevant. And then::

    $ git add lino_cosi/lib/sepa/models.py
    $ git status
    On branch master
    Your branch is up-to-date with 'origin/master'.

    All conflicts fixed but you are still merging.
      (use "git commit" to conclude merge)

    Changes to be committed:

            modified:   lino_cosi/lib/sepa/__init__.py
            modified:   lino_cosi/lib/sepa/models.py
            modified:   lino_cosi/lib/sepa/ui.py
    
And now, as instructed, I use "git commit" to conclude the merge::

    $ git commit -m "merged Hamza's changes to master"
    [master a038fbb] merged Hamza's changes to master
    
    $ git status
    On branch master
    Your branch is ahead of 'origin/master' by 2 commits.
      (use "git push" to publish your local commits)

    nothing to commit, working directory clean
    
And then I publish everything::
    
    $ git push
    Counting objects: 30, done.
    Delta compression using up to 8 threads.
    Compressing objects: 100% (16/16), done.
    Writing objects: 100% (16/16), 3.18 KiB | 0 bytes/s, done.
    Total 16 (delta 14), reused 0 (delta 0)
    To git@github.com:lsaffre/lino-cosi.git
       cb6d3a0..a038fbb  master -> master
