===========================
Wednesday, October 21, 2015
===========================

I merged more changes by Hamza for #505 into master::

    $ git fetch hamza 
    remote: Counting objects: 28, done.
    remote: Compressing objects: 100% (28/28), done.
    remote: Total 28 (delta 12), reused 0 (delta 0), pack-reused 0
    Unpacking objects: 100% (28/28), done.
    From https://github.com/HamZuS/lino-cosi
       5ba0ba8..85501a3  master     -> hamza/master
    
    $ git merge hamza/master 
    Updating a038fbb..85501a3
    Fast-forward
     docs/tested/demo.rst           |  8 ++++----
     docs/tested/general.rst        |  5 +++--
     docs/tested/ledger.rst         | 58 +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++-----------------
     lino_cosi/lib/sepa/__init__.py |  8 ++------
     lino_cosi/lib/sepa/models.py   |  6 ++++--
     lino_cosi/lib/sepa/ui.py       |  9 +++------
     6 files changed, 57 insertions(+), 37 deletions(-)


    $ git push
    Counting objects: 50, done.
    Delta compression using up to 8 threads.
    Compressing objects: 100% (28/28), done.
    Writing objects: 100% (28/28), 3.26 KiB | 0 bytes/s, done.
    Total 28 (delta 24), reused 0 (delta 0)
    To git@github.com:lsaffre/lino-cosi.git
       a038fbb..85501a3  master -> master
    
    
For Welfare I still had to pull down Hamza's changes after having
confirmed and merged his pull request using the web interface, but Git
surprised me::
    
    $ git pull
    remote: Counting objects: 16, done.
    remote: Compressing objects: 100% (9/9), done.
    remote: Total 16 (delta 13), reused 10 (delta 7), pack-reused 0
    Unpacking objects: 100% (16/16), done.
    From github.com:lsaffre/lino-welfare
       e6d739e..806f191  master     -> origin/master
    There is no tracking information for the current branch.
    Please specify which branch you want to merge with.
    See git-pull(1) for details

        git pull <remote> <branch>

    If you wish to set tracking information for this branch you can do so with:

        git branch --set-upstream-to=<remote>/<branch> master
    
As it seems (according to `this
<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/10147475/git-checkout-tag-git-pull-fails-in-branch>`__),
I somehow did not yet set my upstream master::
    
    $ git branch --set-upstream-to=origin/master master    


Atelier, Noi, Welfare and Cosi now watched on Drone.io
======================================================
    
I created three new projects at drone.io for :ref:`atelier`,
:re:`noi`, :ref:`cosi` and :ref:`welfare`.  Cheat sheet for creating a
Drone project for a Lino application:

- Environment Variables::

  LINO_CACHE_ROOT=/home/ubuntu/lino_cache

- Commands::

    pip install -e .
    mkdir -p $LINO_CACHE_ROOT
    fab initdb test

I did this mainly because this seems the easiest way to automatically
notify Hamza when I push a set of changes to my repos.
    
Maybe it won't be trivial to get Cosi and Welfare watched on Drone
because we test them with the latest development version of Lino
(while on Drone they will use -of course- the latest released Lino
version). It means that I will have to release Lino more often. But
you are right, that's actually not a big problem, and it is necessary
to do it.


:ref:`cosi` then failed on Drone.io::

  ImportError: Problem installing fixture '/home/ubuntu/virtualenv/python2.7/lib/python2.7/site-packages/lino/modlib/countries/fixtures/eesti.py': No module named commondata.ee.places

... despite the fact that I specified `commondata.ee` in the
`tests_require` of my :xfile:`setup_info.py` file. I guess that the
``pip install -e`` implicitly causes pip to *not* install
dependencies. But I don't like to use a `requirements.txt` file
because that's redundant with the :xfile:`setup_info.py`.  To be
observed.


Fixed some test failures in Welfare
===================================

I fixed some failures in :ref:`welfare.specs.ledger` which were caused
by Hamza's changes. Actually he wanted to look at them. 

Since ``sepa`` now needs ``ledger``, Hamza had to
change the order of these plugins in `get_installed_apps`. 

This caused :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.ledger.fixtures.demo` to fail
because it was now being loaded before
:mod:`lino_cosi.lib.sepa.fixtures.demo`. But the latter creates the
contacts with an IBAN account number needed by the former.  So I moved
the creating of incoming demo invoices from
:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.ledger.fixtures.demo` to
:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.sepa.fixtures.demo`.

Another series of failures was due to the fact that demo user
"wilfried" now gets created *earlier* (again due to the new sequencing
order of the plugins) so that some user id's have changed. Hamza, I
leave this to you as an exercise!

When pushing my changes, I saw yet another problem: our demo file
`lino_welfare/projects/eupen/tests/COD_20150907_O25MMF107I.xml` (which
I added `20151013
<https://github.com/lsaffre/lino-welfare/commit/37c1ab60f5db9c02802e2f70529176d092603f67>`_)
had been deleted again.  I first thought that this was also because
Hamza was not notified about my commits and therefore did not merge
them into his fork.  But the explanation was easier:
:attr:`delete_imported_xml_files
<lino_cosi.lib.sepa.Plugin.delete_imported_xml_files>` now works! And
therefore the :mod:`test_import_sepa
<lino_welfare.projects.eupen.tests.test_import_sepa>` test deletes our
demo file each time when being run.  Solution was to set the default
value of this setting to `False`.



#595 (Tx25 : No handler for BurialModes)
========================================

I fixed :ticket:`595`. The problem itself was trivial (just add a
handler in :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.cbss.tx25`), but testing this
type of issue is always a bit tricky because I have only confidential
data for testing these.

This time it caused some subtle bugfixes with danger of side effects:

- `cbss.RetrieveTIGroupsRequest` had a forgotten manual `do_print`
  action defined.  Thiscaused Lino to continue printing Tx25 requests
  using `DirectPrintAction` instead of using the excerpts system.

- And then the excerpt sdid not appear in the client's history because
  there was no
  :meth:`lino_welfare.modlib.cbss.mixins.CBSSRequest.get_excerpt_option`.

- The :xfile:`certificate.body.html` template tried to extend
  :xfile:`base.body.html` with a wrong path::

    {% extends "excerpts/Excerpt/base.body.html" %}

- 
