===========================
Wednesday, October 28, 2015
===========================

#505
====

Remember that :ticket:`505` was waiting for my diagnostics about the
error message :message:`Data truncated for column 'remote_owner' at
row 1`. But Hamza maybe found the reason without my help:

    I thought that this is because we get a remote_owner with a length
    more then 32 (As it was defined in the model). I edit my sample
    file by increasing the length of <Nm> tag but unfortunately, I
    can't reproduce the error described in the blog.  Any way, I guess
    the remote_owner, which suppose to be a partner (or person) name,
    should be defined with 128 as length.  I create a PR for that.

I merged Hamza's pull requests for :ref:`cosi` and :ref:`welfare` and
started testing them on testlino in Eupen.  

Testing this takes some waiting time because it includes restoring a
snapshot, and that snapshot failed twice because of the `match` field
which is no longer a FK but a char field, so I worked in parallel on
the following.


#600 : Get lino-cosi to pass on drone.io
========================================

While waiting for results, I opened :ticket:`600` (Get lino-cosi to
pass on drone.io). 

Currently every commit to :ref:`cosi` and :ref:`welfare` cause a
failure notification from drone.io. Okay we know that our main reason
for using drone.io is to automatically notify Hamza about my commits.
But it is of course irritating to receive a failure message.  The
builds #7 and #8 on drone.io are part of this.

Lino Così currently had a special situation on PyPI.  There was a
release 0.0.1 but without any files.  I guess that this can happen
when the release process was interrupted.  Anyway it caused the
:cmd:`fab release` command to produce an :message:`IndexError: list
index out of range`. This was a bug in :mod:`atelier.fablib`. Fixed.

Now at least :ref:`cosi` fails to build on drone.io for the same
reason as the first time (:doc:`1021`), i.e. because drone does not
install :mod:`commondata.ee` despite the fact that this is included in
`tests_require`.

#505 (continued)
================

Here is the result of the next test run. This time we get the
followinig traceback::

    201510-28 04:41:31 WARNING ajax : AjaxExceptionResponse MultipleObjectsReturned: get() returned more than one Account -- it returned 3!

    in request POST /api/system/SiteConfigs (data: <QueryDict: {u'an': [u'import_sepa']}>)
    TRACEBACK:
      File "env/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/core/handlers/base.py", line 112, in get_response
        response = wrapped_callback(request, *callback_args, **callback_kwargs)
      File "env/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/views/generic/base.py", line 69, in view
        return self.dispatch(request, *args, **kwargs)
      File "env/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/views/generic/base.py", line 87, in dispatch
        return handler(request, *args, **kwargs)
      File "/repositories/lino/lino/modlib/extjs/views.py", line 530, in post
        return settings.SITE.kernel.run_action(ar)
      File "/repositories/lino/lino/core/kernel.py", line 693, in run_action
        a.run_from_ui(ar)
      File "/repositories/lino-cosi/lino_cosi/lib/sepa/models.py", line 76, in run_from_ui
        self.import_file(ar, filename)
      File "/repositories/lino-cosi/lino_cosi/lib/sepa/models.py", line 140, in import_file
        _bank_account = Account.objects.get(iban=_movement.remote_account)
      File "env/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/db/models/manager.py", line 151, in get
        return self.get_queryset().get(*args, **kwargs)
      File "env/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/db/models/query.py", line 313, in get
        (self.model._meta.object_name, num))

Hamza, the explanation seems clear to me: you try to create a new
`sepa.Account` record for each remote account of every transaction.
That's not what we need. The remote accounts (i.e. those of the
recipients or senders of each transaction) must not create a new
`sepa.Account` record, we store just their IBAN and BIC. The
`remote_account` field (and that's correct) is just an IBANField, not
a ForeignKey to `sepa.Account`.

IOW, in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.sepa.models`, line 138ff you have::

    if _movement.remote_account:
        try:
            _bank_account = Account.objects.get(iban=_movement.remote_account)
        except Account.DoesNotExist:
            _bank_account = Account(iban=_movement.remote_account)
            _bank_account.full_clean()
            _bank_account.save()
        if not Movement.objects.filter(
                unique_import_id=_movement['unique_import_id']).exists():
            m = Movement(statement=s,
                         unique_import_id=_movement['unique_import_id'],
                         movement_date=_movement['date'],
                         amount=_movement['amount'],
                         partner_name=_movement.remote_owner,
                         ref=_ref,
                         remote_account=_bank_account.iban,
                         remote_bic = _bank_account.bic,

This must become something like this (not tested)::

    if not Movement.objects.filter(
            unique_import_id=_movement['unique_import_id']).exists():
        m = Movement(statement=s,
                     unique_import_id=_movement['unique_import_id'],
                     movement_date=_movement['date'],
                     amount=_movement['amount'],
                     partner_name=_movement.remote_owner,
                     ref=_ref,
                     remote_account=_movement.remote_account,
                     remote_bic = _movement.remote_bic,

                        
Please change it (or ask questions if you don't agree or don't
understand) and post a next PR which I will probably be able to test
tonight.

I guess that this misunderstanding comes from my sentence "The rule
here is that there should be one Account for every incoming IBAN. If
no Account exists, import_file() should create an orphaned account
(with empty "partner" field since you don't know the partner)." (:doc:`1013`)

Note also that I already discovered, described and fixed this problem
on :doc:`1016`, but my changes got lost somehow.






Timezones in Lino Noi
=====================

Hamza probably is already used to it... but I saw it now for the first
time with my own eyes: :ticket:`601`.


