==========================
Thursday, October 29, 2015
==========================

New input for :ref:`cosi`
=========================

I met with Danny who will be probably the first :ref:`cosi` user. Here
is my to-do list (in German):

- Ihr Zeichen : nicht pro Rechnung sondern pro Zeile
- Zahlungsbedingung ist leer
- Zahlungsziel automatisch füllen
- Lieferart kann weg
- "Produkt" wird bei Rechnung nicht direkt benutzt, sondern immer nur
  freier Text. Bei Aufträgen wird dagegen oft ein Produkt benutzt.
- Buchungsanweisungen vielleicht eher in der Kategorie speichern?
- Auftrag mit F5 nach Rechnung reinholen können
- Quicklinks pro Journal
- Gut ist, dass Rechnungsnummer erst beim REgistrieren vergeben
  wird. Also man kann Rechnungen bei Bedarf im Laufe der Arbeit
  anfangen und erst viel später registrieren.
- Reports Buchhaltung : Journale (Rechnungsbuch) drucken
- Text-Editor in der ItemsByInvoice sichtbar machen. Ein Detail pro
  Zeile wäre unbequem.
- Text pro Rechnung bzw. Angebot kann weg



Organized disinformation
========================

I read an interesting article `Wirtschaft in der
Schule: Arbeitgeber-Lobby stoppt Unterrichtsbuch
<http://www.spiegel.de/schulspiegel/lobby-und-schule-arbeitgeberverband-stoppt-wirtschaftsbuch-a-1059654.html>`_.

My summary: The German "Federal Agency for Political Education"
(Bundeszentrale für Politische Bildung, BPB) had published in February
2015 a school book `Ökonomie und Gesellschaft -- Zwölf Bausteine für
die schulische und außerschulische Bildung
<http://www.bpb.de/shop/lernen/themen-und-materialien/200345/oekonomie-und-gesellschaft>`__.
Six weeks later the Federal Association of Employers' Organizations
(Bundesvereinigung der Deutschen Arbeitgeberverbände, BDA), lead by
Peter Clever, didn't like the book because it presents liberal
entrepreneurship in a negative light. He criticizes that the book was
ideologically biased propaganda against economics. And asked to stop
its distribution in that form.  (Excerpts from his letter: "Wo ist in
dieser Veröffentlichung die konstruktive und zentrale Rolle der
deutschen Unternehmen in der dualen Ausbildung über einen Halbsatz
hinaus angemessen thematisiert?". Or "Die in Ihrer Publikation
transportierten ideologischen und voreingenommenen Anschuldigungen
kennen wir aus interessierten Kreisen schon länger. Dass sie nun aber
durch die Bundeszentrale für politische Bildung verbreitet und
empfohlen werden, ist skandalös und nicht hinnehmbar.")  And the
ministry for inner affairs (Bundesministerium des Innern, BMI) indeed
"obeyed": they instructed the BDA to stop distribution. Despite a
series of expertises who concluded that distribution was not
problematic and that the BDA's claim was invalid.  The German Society
for Sociology `reports more details
<http://www.soziologie.de/de/nc/aktuell/meldungen-archiv/einzelansicht/archive/2015/10/23/article/vorlaeufiges-vertriebsverbot-der-sammelpublikation-oekonomie-und-gesellschaft-bundeszentrale-fuer-politische-bildung-durch-das-bundesministerium-des-innern.html>`_

I guess that I would like the book but didn't read it and have no
definitive opinion. Anyway it's funny how complex things can be! The
discussion about liberalism, capitalism, communism (which also leads
to the question about :doc:`/topics/whyfree/index`) is more complex than a
human brain can handle.  IMHO this example shows that the most
important urgent problem of humanity is neither war, nor hunger, nor
environment, but democracy...

Alice pointed another cool example of organized disinformation,
this one is not about economics but about creationism: `Texas Public
Schools Are Teaching Creationism
<http://www.slate.com/articles/health_and_science/science/2014/01/creationism_in_texas_public_schools_undermining_the_charter_movement.html>`__
by Zack Kopplin. It starts like this:

    When public-school students enrolled in Texas’ largest charter
    program open their biology workbooks, they will read that the
    fossil record is “sketchy.” That evolution is “dogma” and an
    “unproved theory” with no experimental basis. They will be told
    that leading scientists dispute the mechanisms of evolution and
    the age of the Earth. These are all lies.

Organized disinformation is an important danger for democracy because
it falsifies the conscience of humans in order to protect or
strengthen some private interest.



#505 : next test
================

There was another message "Warning: Data truncated for column 'message' at row 1".
In order to avoid a new reload of the snapshot, I did the structure change manually::


  mysql> alter table sepa_movement modify message varchar(255);

And voilà: 1 xml files would have been imported.
(BTW: I changed this message to "1 xml files have been imported."

But according to :mod:`lino_cosi.lib.sepa.camt` and `this
<http://www.hettwer-beratung.de/sepa-spezialwissen/sepa-technische-anforderungen/camt-format-camt-053/>`_,
a VARCHAR is not enough for the`message` field because it can contain
more than 1000 chars.  So I changed it into a TextField.
And adapted the detail layout.
Note that I changed `MovementDetail` into `Movements.detail_layout`.

I added `blank=True` to some fields of `Movement`.

