========================
Monday, November 9, 2015
========================

#38 continuing
==============

Hamza and I had another shared session yesterday where we fixed about
6 of the remaining 10 failures. Hamza continued alone afterwards and
committed our work to his fork. Now I merged his changes to Lino
master.

There were still 2 failures in the :ref:`faggio` test suite (due to
one of our changes for :ticket:`38`)


Multiple products per ticket?
=============================

The following thoughts are mainly for :ticket:`602`. While my first
reaction after my meeting with Oikos (Johannes) was to write a new
application from scratch, I later got the idea that this project is
possibly a case for Lino Noi.

The current database structure in :ref:`ref` has one product per
ticket. I am considering to change this into a 1-to-N relation. That
is, per ticket, instead of having a ForeignKey field which points to a
product, we would have a list of "related products" per ticket.
Another part of this change would be to add a list of
"responsibilities" or "competences" per user. We could then add a
filter to be used when assigning new tickets to a user: Lino would
suggest only those users who have registered their compentence for the
related products of the ticket.

Discussion: 

- alternatively don't do this with the producs table but add
  a new table "competences" ("required competences" per ticket and
  "owned competences" per user).

- alternatively just add a list of competences per user and leave the
  one product per ticket rule.

Should we differentiate between "products" and "competences"?
Products are currently the things that a given Noi community is
"producing". IOW the software components or modules of the
miscellaneous projects.  What would be in our (the Lino team's) list
of "Competences" if it was separate?

======================= ===================
Competence              Users
======================= ===================
Local testing           Gerd, Mathieu
Configuration           Gerd, Mathieu, Luc
Analysis with customer  Gerd, Mathieu, Luc
Code changes            Luc, Hamza
Bugfix                  Luc, Hamza
Enhancement             Luc, Hamza
Optimization            Luc, Hamza
Documentation           Luc
Offer                   Luc
======================= ===================

We can observe that this list is almost identical with our current
"ticket types".

We could rename this field to "Required action".

Instead of having multiple required actions, we can leave it as it is
and get used to the fact that this field may change during the
lifecycle of a ticket.

This structure is very similar to what we have in
:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.newcomers` where the "products" or "ticket
types" are called "faculties".

Summary: :ticket:`602` might be absolutely implementable with minimum
effort:

- add a new plugin :mod:`lino_noi.lib.faculties` with two models
  "Faculty" and "Competence" as in
  :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.newcomers`.  Also the tables are similar.
- Change Ticket.detail_layout : remove the "Waiting for" field (a
  plain charfield) and replace it by "Faculty required" (a pointer to
  Faculty).
- develop workflow and tables for managing the assignment of tickets
  to users. E.g. a view to help answering the question "Which tickets
  that are currently assigned to Luc (or to nobody) can be assigned to
  Hamza?"
- release these changes to our production site. We will manually
  populate the faculties table with values as above.

- Note that we leave the TicketType table unchanged. It might become
  more useful in the future, e.g. the ticket type might have an
  influence on price when invoicing.

These changes would be directly interesting for the Lino team.  

And later, for Oikos we might need a way to classify these faculties
into categories because there might be many of them. (But it's too
early to decide about this)

I created a new ticket :ticket:`610` for these first changes because
they are only a first step of the whole :ticket:`602` project, and
because I plan to leave this first step to Hamza.

#353 (Lino Così)
================

After my meeting with Danny last week I had a list of things to do for
ticket :ticket:`353`. Finally I found some time to start working on
these.

Some trivial changes:

- Lieferart kann weg. We don't need the ShippingMode, at least not in
  a basic version. Create a new plugin "delivery" which currently just
  contains the model and will later contains delivery notes.

- No `discount` field per invoice (but only per item)

- New fields `ship_date` and `ship_ref`. These are meant to be filled
  manually in case of grouped invoices. We decided to *not* add
  delivery notes to the database (at least not in a basic version).

This one was less trivial:

- After selecting the payment term of an invoice, Lino should set the
  `due_date`

Thoughts about payment terms
----------------------------

The following are fragments of my thoughts...

We have two mixins 
:class:`PartnerRelated <lino_cosi.lib.ledger.mixins.PartnerRelated>`
and
:class:`Payable <lino_cosi.lib.sepa.mixins.Payable>`.
Shouldn't be Payable a subclass of PartnerRelated?
Or rather PartnerRelated a subclass of Payable?
Are there PartnerRelated models which are not Payable?

Should PaymentTerm work for any trade type? Or should it be reserved
for sales? A: no, there are probably users who use it for registering
purchase invoices.

There are vouchers which have a due_date and are payable (must get
cleared by some other transaction), but their due_date is not computed
automatically using a PaymentTerm

There are 3 :class:`Payable <lino_cosi.lib.sepa.mixins.Payable>`
concrete models: :class:`VatAccountInvoice
<lino_cosi.lib.vat.models.VatAccountInvoice>`,
:class:`VatProductInvoice
<lino_cosi.lib.sales.models.VatProductInvoice>` and
:class:`AccountInvoice <lino_cosi.lib.vatless.models.AccountInvoice>`.

All of these are also :class:`PartnerRelated
<lino_cosi.lib.ledger.mixins.PartnerRelated>`, but they don't inherit
it directly:

- :class:`VatDocument <lino_cosi.lib.vat.mixins.VatDocument>`
    
  - :class:`VatAccountInvoice <lino_cosi.lib.vat.models.VatAccountInvoice>`
  - :class:`SalesDocument <lino_cosi.lib.sales.models.SalesDocument>`
        
    - :class:`VatProductInvoice <lino_cosi.lib.sales.models.VatProductInvoice>`
    - :class:`Order <lino_cosi.lib.orders.models.Order>`
            
- :class:`AccountInvoice <lino_cosi.lib.vatless.models.AccountInvoice>`
- :class:`VoucherItem <lino_welfare.modlib.client_vouchers.models.VoucherItem>`



An order is a VatDocument (and thereby a PartnerRelated), but not a
Payable.

An order has a payment_term (as a sales invoice) but is not payable.

Changes
-------

- :class:`Payable <lino_cosi.lib.sepa.mixins.Payable>`
  now inherits from 
  :class:`PartnerRelated <lino_cosi.lib.ledger.mixins.PartnerRelated>`
- :class:`VatDocument <lino_cosi.lib.vat.mixins.VatDocument>` is no longer PartnerRelated
- Until now the `payment_term` field was injected by
  :mod:`lino_cosi.lib.vat.models`, but now this is done by
  :mod:`lino_cosi.lib.ledger.models`.  

  A consequence of this is that now
  also in :ref:`welfare` all partners have this field. Which is indeed
  what we want (as far as I can see) : when they start to register
  purchase invoices, then they will possibly want to give a default
  payment term per provider. At least in TIM they had this possibility.

- Moved ``orders`` from :mod:`lino.modlib` to :mod:`lino_cosi.lib`
  (but this plugin is not yet being used)

Changes en passant
------------------

- Added new :meth:`lino.utils.diag.Analyzer.show_database_structure`
- Moved `dd.get_db_overview_rst` to
  :meth:`lino.utils.diag.Analyzer.show_db_overview`
