=========================
Monday, November 23, 2015
=========================

I committed a a docstring change in Lino.

More optimizations for :ticket:`505`
====================================

I continued on :ticket:`626`.  With Gerd I inspected the statements
imported last Friday.  While before there were too *many* statements,
now there were *not enough* of them.  Trying with the
`electronic_sequence_number` instead of the
`legal_sequence_number`. Voilà, this yields more realistic data.

Here is a nice trick which I tried for the first time (because when I
want to reset all tables of the :mod:`lino_xl.lib.b2c` plugin,
reloading a full dump just seems like overkiill::

    $ python manage.py sqlclear b2c > b2c_clear.sql
    $ python manage.py sql b2c >> b2c_clear.sql
    $ mysql -u USERNAME -p DATABASENAME < b2c_clear.sql


Don't misuse width specifiers when defining layouts
====================================================

A style hint for Hamza: when you write layouts, then don't worry about
the field widths.  For example, I saw that you wrote something like
this (in :class:`lino_xl.lib.b2c.ui.Movements`)::

    detail_layout = """
    statement:30 seqno:10 booking_date:20 amount:20
    remote_account:20 remote_bic:10 eref:10
    remote_owner:20 remote_owner_address:20 remote_owner_city:20 remote_owner_postalcode:20
    remote_owner_country_code:20 transfer_type:20 value_date:20
    message
    """
    
It is easier to just write::    

    detail_layout = """
    statement seqno booking_date amount
    remote_account remote_bic eref
    remote_owner remote_owner_address remote_owner_city remote_owner_postalcode
    remote_owner_country_code transfer_type value_date
    message
    """
    
Usually the default width should yield a reasonable result. You add
explicit widths in a layout only when there is a problem with the
default behaviour. And even then it might be better to use
:meth:`set_widget_options <lino.core.model.Model.set_widget_options>`,
i.e. specify an alternate width for every usage of that field in a
layout.


Miscellaneous
=============

I noted that :meth:`lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.confirm` does not
work in a :manage:`run` script.


Fixed ticket #219
=================

Yet another example of synergy: Hamza and I fixed ticket :ticket:`219`
during an extreme programming session with shared screens. This part
of Lino is really complex and difficult to understand.


About the BankTransactionCode (`<BkTxCd>`)
==========================================

In :class:`lino_xl.lib.b2c.models.Movement` I renamed
`transfer_type` to `txcd`.

The Lino Welfare end users want to see the textual meaning (not the
numeric code) of this field.

It is documented at page 62 of the `febelfin specs
<https://www.febelfin.be/sites/default/files/files/Standard-XML-Statement-v1-en_0.pdf>`_

The original camt module just imported the proprietary code, but not
the issuer.

- Proprietary <Prtry>: Proprietary identification of the bank
  transaction code, as defined by the issuer.

  - Code <Cd> : Proprietary bank transaction code to identify the
    underlying transaction. Max 35 characters.

  - Issuer <Issr> : Identification of the issuer of the proprietary
    bank transaction code.

For a Belgian PCSW the issuer will probably always by "BBA", so for
the moment I just created a simple new module
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.b2c.bba` which contains the descriptions of all
their possible codes.  It was about two hours of work to copy these
from the febelfin specs and to convert them to Python code.

And then a new virtual field 
:attr:`lino_xl.lib.b2c.models.Movement.txcd_text`.

TODO: the users will want to see them in French and German, but not in
English.

