============================
Wednesday, November 25, 2015
============================


I investigated about :ticket:`624` (Ctrl-S triggers ComboBox to open).

Note that::

  Lino.ComboBox = Ext.extend(Ext.form.ComboBox,{

By looking at the code of `Ext.form.ComboBox`
(:file:`ext-all-debug.js` somewhere below your collectstatic
directory) you can see that the `Ext.form.ComboBox.onLoad` method is
defined as follows::

    onLoad : function(){
        if(!this.hasFocus){
            return;
        }
        if(this.store.getCount() > 0 || this.listEmptyText){
            this.expand();

This indicates that a ComboBox field has the built-in behaviour that
it expands when it has focus during onLoad.

Ctrl-S submits the current records, and that AJAX request also returns
a `data_record`, which causes the Lino.FormPanel to get "loaded" and
the "load" event is sent to all fields. So I guess that this method is
somehow being called when the FormPanel got loaded.

I see no solution yet...

Shortcuts to starred tickets in welcome message
===============================================

Ticket :ticket:`629` was a quick idea (I was missing list of
often-used ticket in the welcome screen and remembered the problem
that it is probably good to give them a nickname)


French translations for transfer types
======================================

Patrick from `febelfin.be` sent me links the `CODA specification
<https://www.febelfin.be/sites/default/files/files/standard-coda-2-5-fr.pdf>`_
which contain the "official" French translations of the "Bank
transaction codes" used in Belgium.

It seems that "BBA" is a historic name, and that now "febelfin" is a
better choice.

I replaced :mod:`lino_xl.lib.b2c.bba` (which was a first draft after
copying the texts from their document) by
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.b2c.febelfin` which uses translatable strings.
Actually I used `bba` to generate `febelfin` (or at least the big dict
which it contains.

I translated some of the descriptions, but more than 200 still need to
be done.

I added the `txcd_issuer <lino_xl.lib.b2c.models.Movement.txcd_issuer`

I changed the model name "Movement" to :class:`Transaction
<lino_xl.lib.b2c.models.Transaction>` because that's how the SEPA
standard calls them.


Ticket #37
==========

Hamza and I started to work on :ticket:`37`.

Download ExtJS 6 GPL version from https://www.sencha.com/legal/GPL/

Note: why do they say the following:

  "If you start with a GPL license, you cannot convert to a commercial
  license simply by purchasing one."


Created new project on GitHub: 
https://github.com/lino-framework/lino_extjs6

Okay, the general Python stuff is there and functional.  Now the
actual work can start : fire up a runserver in mysite, open the
browser on it and analyze the Javascript error messages.

- names of include files have changed (see the methods defined in
  :class:`lino_extjs6.extjs.Plugin`.

- The ExtJS API changed a lot between 3 and 4. For example
  `Ext.BoxComponent` must become `Ext.Component`. And also:

  - Ext.FormPanel --> Ext.form.Panel

I guess that we would want to download that Migration pack mentioned at
https://www.sencha.com/blog/ext-js-3-to-4-migration/
but the link is broken. We might contact Sencha and ask for it.

Here are some interesting hints:
https://www.leonrenkema.nl/2012/08/12/whats-new-in-extjs-4/
