===================================
20151127 (Friday, 27 November 2015)
===================================

I fixed :ticket:`623` which was intersting because it revealed a
conceptual problem: I added :class:`lino.modlib.comments.mixins.RFC`.

I added a field :attr:`lino_noi.lib.clocking.models.Session.faculty`.

I defined a slave summary for SessionsByTicket: 
:attr:`lino_noi.lib.clocking.ui.SessionsByTicket.slave_summary`

StartTicketSession no longer shows in the workflow
buttons (show_in_workflow is now False).


About demo databases
====================

Hamza, I realized that you were right: :cmd:`fab initdb` *should* have
worked. Your problem was because `mysite` is not declared as a *demo
project* in the :xfile:`fabfile.py`. I now created :ticket:`637`
because your pitfall was caused by this.  in order to fix it, you must
add a call to :func:`add_demo_project
<atelier.fablib.add_demo_project>` in the :xfile:`fabfile.py` of
:mod:`lino_extjs6`.  But since :func:`add_demo_project
<atelier.fablib.add_demo_project>` requires a Python module name (not
a path), you must move the "mysite" directory somewhere below
`lino_extjs/` (I suggest e.g. `lino_extjs6.projects.demo`).



Durations of more than 24 hours
===============================

The :mod:`lino.utils.quantities` module did not yet support duations
of more than 24 hours. Now it does. The problem was that it used `str`
on a :class:`datetime.datetime` instance without checking for its
value of days.

>>> x = datetime.timedelta(days=128)
>>> print repr(x), isinstance(x, basestring)
>>> str(x)
'128 days, 0:00:00'


Working late in the night
=========================

The :class:`WorkedHours <lino_noi.lib.clocking.ui.WorkedHours>` had a
subtle bug: when a session had been across midnight (starting before
midnight and ending the next day), then it was being computed on both
days.


Better usage of `memo_parse`
============================

Memo commands in the :attr:`description
<lino_noi.lib.tickets.models.Ticket.description>` of a ticket (e.g. a
text like "See [ticket 37]") were interpreted only by the *bootstrap3*
interface (i.e. when watching them on http://bugs.lino-framework.org/)
and not by the *extjs* interface. Now also there.

Memo commands in a :class:`Comment
<lino.modlib.comments.models.Comment>` did not yet work at all. Now
they work in both user interfaces.


Repaired test suites
====================

There were several cases failing in the test suites of :ref:`welfare`
and :ref:`noi` after my changes of last days.


Interest from Québec
====================

Lino received congratulations from Dario Gomez-Tafur, the author of
`django-softmachine <https://github.com/certae/django-softmachine>`_.
There are chances that we will collaborate in the one or another way.
I joined the `ring <https://ring.cx>`_, my ringID is
fa8a41081c6794f9e93e036b38ad9cac058a907a and I added this to my
:doc:`contact page </about/index>`.

About pull requests
===================

Note that my `last commit to lino_extjs6
<https://gitlab.com/lino-framework/lino_extjs6/commit/08a6e75d3252ce7f8b3b968861ffa28a9447a0d8>`_
was not mine at all, it is Hamza's work. But he does not show up as
contributor on GitHub.  According to `GitHub Help
<https://help.github.com/articles/why-are-my-contributions-not-showing-up-on-my-profile/>`_
it might be because I was too eager to pull his changes and merge them
to my master, I must rather let Hamza do a pull request and then
accept pull request. We'll try the next time.
