=========================
Tuesday, December 1, 2015
=========================

Today I finally took some time to work on "real" tickets, i.e. tickets
which have been asked by customers.  They are mostly quite
application-specific, and the biggest challenge here is analysis: to
find out what the customer really wants, to check with them whether
what they *want* is also what they *need*. It requires of course a
detailed knowledge about Lino Welfare.

:ticket:`571` : changed the :meth:`setup_auto_event
<lino_welfare.modlib.isip.mixins.ContractBase.setup_auto_event>`
method for all contracts: when the contract's author is still coaching
the client, then he or she remains the responsible user of evaluation
event. The existing rule applies only when the contract's author no
longer coaches that client.

:ticket:`339`: 
- "Plausibility" = "Vérification de données"

:ticket:`617`
:ticket:`618`
:ticket:`606`
:ticket:`579`

One of them requires a (simple) database migration.

:ticket:`615` : Added a new field `seeking_since` (to :class:`Client
<lino_welfare.modlib.pcsw.models.Client>`) Changed label of
`unemployed_since` from "Seeking work since" to "Unemployed since".

Optimization *en pasant*: :ticket:`641` and
:attr:`lino.core.sote.Site.obj2text_template`.

:ticket:`603` : the meaning of `date_ended` has slightly changed.
:meth:`lino_welfare.modlib.isip.ContractBase.full_clean` now sets
`date_ended` to `applies_until` when empty.

:ticket:`556` and :ticket:`543`

:ticket:`261` : In :mod:`lino.modlib.cv` all three tables Studies,
Experiences and Trainings now have default filtering on the period.

For :ticket:`225` I just had to add two lines of code to
:mod:`lino_welfare.projects.chatelet.modlib.pcsw.models`::

    notes = dd.resolve_app('notes')
    notes.Note.hidden_elements = dd.fields_list(
        notes.Note, 'company contact_person contact_role')


About :ticket:`229`: :class:`AppointmentsByPartner
<lino.modlib.reception.models.AppointmentsByPartner>` is on
:class:`cal.Guest <lino.modlib.cal.models.Guest>`, not on
:class:`cal.Event <lino.modlib.cal.models.Event>`. I was not aware of
this when talking with the customer. I reset this ticket state to
"Talk" because I need to explain them the difference and the
possibilities.

And :ticket:`640` : in
:meth:`lino.modlib.cal.mixins.EventGenerator.get_wanted_auto_events` I
changed ``ar.debug("No event_type")`` into ``ar.info("No
event_type")`` because that was the main reason why there wasn't even
a message in the JavaScript console.  But actually these messages
should get directly reported to the user.  The methods `info`,
`debug`, `warning` and `append_message` on
:class:`lino.core.requests.BaseRequest` are probably to be deprecated.
The `get_wanted_auto_events` method is almost the only one wwho uses
these methods, and we should rather return a HTML message with a
expandable "Show details" button.
