===========================
Wednesday, December 2, 2015
===========================

About :ticket:`644`
===================

This problem occurs because `TextRenderer` now implements its own
:meth:`obj2html` method. Here is the relevat excerpt from
:mod:`lino.core.renderer`:

    class Renderer(object):
        ...

    class HtmlRenderer(Renderer):
        def obj2html(self, ar, obj, text=None, **kwargs):
            if text is None:
                text = (force_unicode(obj),)
            elif isinstance(text, basestring):
                text = (text,)
            url = self.instance_handler(ar, obj)
            if url is not None:
                return E.a(*text, href=url, **kwargs)
            return E.em(*text)

    class TextRenderer(HtmlRenderer):
        def obj2html(self, ar, obj, text=None, **kwargs):
            if text is None:
                text = force_unicode(obj)
            # return "**{0}**".format(text)
            return settings.SITE.obj2text_template.format(text)


The problem disappears when I remove the `obj2html` method from
TextRenderer (so that it uses the inherited version which returns
etree elements).  I now "invented" yet another method
:meth:`ar.obj2str <lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.obj2str>` although
this is just a workaround, not a long-term solution.

The name `obj2html` is misleading.  It should be rather something like
:meth:`render_object` or :meth:`objpointer`.  When user code calls
`ar.obj2html()` then it actually means to render a pointer to the
given object according to the request's renderer. Actually a
TextRenderer should not return any HTML. But it seems that I sometimes
misused it myself instead of creating a subrequest with a
HtmlRenderer.


More user docs
==============

Phew! I accidentally invested almost four hours into end-user
documentation.  Not really for actually *writing content* but for
*making it easier to write content*: new Sphinx directive
:rst:directive:`fields_list` and text role :rst:role:`menupath`.

I tried them in :ref:`welfare.de.clients`
and :ref:`welfare.fr.clients`.


Evaluating Sencha Cmd
=====================

I installed `Sencha Cmd
<https://www.sencha.com/products/sencha-cmd/>`_ and tried to follow
`Create great looking Enterprise Dashboards using Sencha Ext JS 6
<http://blogs.walkingtree.in/2015/04/28/create-great-looking-enterprise-dashboards-using-sencha-ext-js-6/>`_.

Tiens, `here
<https://www.sencha.com/legal/sencha-software-license-agreement/>`_ it
is again: they insist on saying "You cannot commence development of an
application under GPLv3 license and later convert to a commercial
license."  Yes, it is good to make things clear, but I'd wish that
they'd also write something like "We are glad if you write free
software licensed under the GPL and use our free version... please be
aware that the GPL means...".  Otherwise these sentences sound as if
they want to discourage us from writing free software.

So I am still sceptical. If I remember well the installer said that
Sencha Cmd is not libre but we may use it free of charge. I cannot
find any license information in the installed software.

But okay, let's not worry too much for the moment.  Here is where I
reached::

    $ /home/luc/bin/Sencha/Cmd/sencha -sdk ~/dell1tb/extjs6/ext-6.0.0 generate app AppsBoard aboard
    Sencha Cmd v6.0.2.14
    [INF] Copying framework to /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard/ext
    [INF] Processing Build Descriptor : classic
    [INF] Using GPL Version of Ext JS version 6.0.0.640 from /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard/ext.
    [INF] The implications of using GPL version can be found here (http://www.sencha.com/products/extjs/licensing).
    [INF] Starting server on port : 1841
    [INF] Mapping http://localhost:1841/~cmd to /home/luc/bin/Sencha/Cmd/6.0.2.14...
    [INF] Mapping http://localhost:1841/ to /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard...
    [INF] Application available at http://localhost:1841
    [INF] Loading app json manifest...
    [INF] Appending content to /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard/bootstrap.js
    [INF] Writing content to /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard/classic.json
    [INF] merging 248 input resources into /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard/build/development/AppsBoard/classic/resources
    [INF] merged 248 resources into /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard/build/development/AppsBoard/classic/resources
    [INF] merging 12 input resources into /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard/build/development/AppsBoard
    [INF] merged 11 resources into /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard/build/development/AppsBoard
    [INF] Writing content to /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard/sass/example/bootstrap.json
    [INF] Writing content to /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard/sass/example/bootstrap.js
    [ERR] 
    [ERR] BUILD FAILED
    [ERR] com.sencha.exceptions.ExProcess: Failed creating background process
    [ERR] 	at 
    [ERR] com.sencha.cli.Commands.dispatch(Commands.java:64)
    [ERR] 
    [ERR] Total time: 5 seconds
    [ERR] 
    [ERR] BUILD FAILED
    [ERR] com.sencha.exceptions.BasicException: The following error occurred while executing this line:
    [ERR] /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard/.sencha/app/build-impl.xml:286: The following error occurred while executing this line:
    [ERR] /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard/.sencha/app/slice-impl.xml:7: The following error occurred while executing this line:
    [ERR] /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard/.sencha/app/slice-impl.xml:18: com.sencha.exceptions.ExProcess: Failed creating background process
    [ERR] /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard/.sencha/app/build-impl.xml:286: The following error occurred while executing this line:
    [ERR] /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard/.sencha/app/slice-impl.xml:7: The following error occurred while executing this line:
    [ERR] /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard/.sencha/app/slice-impl.xml:18: com.sencha.exceptions.ExProcess: Failed creating background process
    [ERR] 	at sun.reflect.
    [ERR] DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.invoke(DelegatingMethodAccessorImpl.java:43)
    [ERR] /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard/.sencha/app/slice-impl.xml:7: The following error occurred while executing this line:
    [ERR] /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard/.sencha/app/slice-impl.xml:18: com.sencha.exceptions.ExProcess: Failed creating background process
    [ERR] 
    [ERR] Total time: 8 seconds
    [ERR] The following error occurred while executing this line:
    /home/luc/bin/Sencha/Cmd/6.0.2.14/plugins/ext/current/plugin.xml:155: com.sencha.exceptions.BasicException: The following error occurred while executing this line:
    /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard/.sencha/app/build-impl.xml:286: The following error occurred while executing this line:
    /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard/.sencha/app/slice-impl.xml:7: The following error occurred while executing this line:
    /media/dell1tb/tmp/aboard/.sencha/app/slice-impl.xml:18: com.sencha.exceptions.ExProcess: Failed creating background process

Hmm... wat nu?


More screenshots
================

I couldn't refrain from adding a screenshot and trying to get a
picture of a single element (which unfortunately doesn't seem to work).

In general I like the idea of writing "screenshot tours" like
:ref:`welfare.fr.tour` and :ref:`welfare.de.tour`. Each of these
documents is a series of screenshots, and for each screenshot there is
a short explanation which may link when appropriate to more detailed
information.

Currently it is not yet very well automated, I must manually do::

  $ cd docs_de ; python make_screenshots.py ; cd ..
  $ cd docs_fr ; python make_screenshots.py ; cd ..
  $ fab bd pd
