=========================
Friday, December 11, 2015
=========================

Finally a new series of changes for :ticket:`143`.

In :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.sepa.fixtures.demo` generiere ich jetzt
erstmals auch monatliche Zahlungsanweisungen mit Beihilfen. Es scheint
letzten Endes viel einfacher zu sein als ich in den letzten Tagen
gedacht habe.

Ich versuche, das alles in :ref:`welfare.specs.ledger` so zu zu
dokumentieren, dass es wenigstens schon mal *für mich* (oder einen
anderen Programmierer) klar ist.

:class:`VoucherTypes <lino_cosi.lib.ledger.choicelists.VoucherTypes>`
no longer uses the model name as value but the table name.  This was
necessary because we have a new voucher type "Payment instructions"
which is stored using the PaymentOrder model but uses its own table.

:class:`Supervisor` now also is :class:`SepaUser`. Quick release to
testlino on weleup so they can evaluate :ticket:`505`.  

The release revealed a possible blocking situation: I did not do any
database migration for the new :class:`VoucherTypes
<lino_cosi.lib.ledger.choicelists.VoucherTypes>`, and since their
database now contains "invalid" values on `Journal.voucher_type`,
their site was broken.
Even a Django shell could not easily access the journals table.

To have a chance of solving it, I added the new Site attribute
:attr:`strict_choicelist_values
<lino.core.site.Site.strict_choicelist_values>` which really makes
sense only in situations like this one.

Cannot assign AnonymousUser object at : "Comment.user" must be a "User" instance
================================================================================

:ticket:`665` revealed a bug in the permission API.

The `get_slave_summary` method of
:class:`lino.modlib.comments.ui.CommentsByRFC` has this code::

    @classmethod
    def get_slave_summary(self, obj, ar):
        html = ...
        sar = self.insert_action.request_from(sar)
        if ar.renderer.is_interactive and sar.get_permission():
            btn = sar.ar2button(None, _("Write comment"), icon_name=None)
            html += "<p>" + E.tostring(btn) + "</p>"
        return u"""<div class="htmlText">{0}</div>""".format(html)

But that was not what we reely want. Actually we want::

    @classmethod
    def get_slave_summary(self, obj, ar):
        html = ...
        sar = self.insert_action.request_from(sar)
        if sar.get_permission():
            btn = sar.ar2button(None, _("Write comment"), icon_name=None)
            html += "<p>" + E.tostring(btn) + "</p>"
        return u"""<div class="htmlText">{0}</div>""".format(html)


IOW : whether the button to write a comment should be displayed, does
not depend on the renderer. Even in a non-interactive renderer
(e.g. doctests) we want to see them. The problem was that the
expression `sar.get_permission` returned always `True` if no `obj` was
specified. And InsertRow has now ``readonly = False``.
