=========================
Monday, December 21, 2015
=========================

Continued on :ticket:`143`.

Release to testlino in Eupen
============================

I deployed the newest version to testlino in Eupen because I plan a
next analysis session for the welfare ledger module
(:ref:`welfare.specs.ledger`) which is almost ready now.

I added a line to the Welfare migrator so that ignores old journal
definitions and installs the default list of demo journals defined in
:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.ledger.fixtures.std_journals`.

This also caused the following optimization.

type object 'AccountChart' has no attribute 'DoesNotExist'
==========================================================

This traceback occurred in :class:`GroupsByChart
<lino_xl.lib.accounts.models.GroupsByChart>` whose
`lino.core.actors.Actor.master` is not a `Model` but a `ChoiceList`.
In that case the actor must define a
:meth:`lino.core.actors.Actor.get_master_instance` method. I tried to
avoid this requirement because I thought that Lino might be smart
enough to handle also :class:`ChoiceListField
<lino.core.choicelists.ChoiceListField>` masters automatically. But
that turned out to not be really trivial (because the `master`, in
that case, can simply be a `Choice` class object which is not linked
to any concrete ChoiceList)


Kleinvieh macht auch Mist
=========================

I simulated, in testlino, a session with WB (i.e. imagined that we
would have a look at the new features and record some real documents)
and discovered some more little things to do.  For example when
registering an REG there were two fields labelled "Konto", one for the
provider's bank account and the other for the cost account (budgetary
article) to use.

Changes done:    
    
- Changed `verbose_name` of `bank_account` field (i.e. of the
  :class:`sepa.Account <lino_xl.lib.sepa.models.Account>` model)
  from "Account" to "Bank account"

- Addded buttons to the items of an invoice: mainly for duplicating,
  but also for moving them up & down.
  :class:`lino_xl.lib.vatless.ui.ItemsByInvoice` and
  vatless.ItemsByProjectInvoice now have a :attr:`move_buttons
  <lino.mixins.sequenced.Sequenced.move_buttons>` column.

- The :attr:`move_buttons <lino.mixins.sequenced.Sequenced.move_buttons>` field now
  includes the `duplicate` action.

- New symbols for actions duplicate, move_up and move_down.

- About the designation of an :class:`accounts.Account
  <lino_xl.lib.accounts.models.Account>`.  TIM users are used to
  have this field labelled "Haushaltsartikel" (and not "Konto").  The
  official name is `Articles budgétaires
  <http://www.pouvoirslocaux.irisnet.be/fr/theme/finances/docfin/la-structure-dun-article-budgetaire>`_. And
  as far as I can see these budgetary articles are in social sector
  accounting exactly what general accounts are in private sector
  accounting.  So shouldn't we change, in Lino Welfare, their
  `verbose_name` from "Account" to "Article"?

  I guess that debt mediation would not agree with this new
  designation.  Can we introduce two new fields `verbose_name` and
  `verbose_name_plural` per `AccountChart` object?  That would be the
  first time that a model has a kind of "dynamic" designation. I think
  that this wouldn't be a good idea.  So I think that the best
  solution is to use :func:`field_update` in
  :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.welfare`.

  Actually the mere fact that I have to *ask* this question is
  suspect.  Debt mediation (:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.debts`) has
  rather *nothing* to do with social accounting
  (:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.ledger`). So maybe it is a design mistake
  to try using :mod:`lino_xl.lib.accounts` for them both.  To be
  observed.

- Fixed some missing German translations:

    - Journal group(s)
    - Printed document designation
    - Force chronological sequence
    - Check clearing

TODO: 
    
- The `move_buttons` are active even on registered
  vouchers. That's not what we want (:ticket:`676`).
    
