============================
Wednesday, December 23, 2015
============================

Ticket :ticket:`676` was an example of the following subtlety: A
:class:`lino.core.boundaction.BoundAction` has two methods
:meth:`get_bound_action_permission
<lino.core.boundaction.BoundAction.get_bound_action_permission>` and
:meth:`get_row_permission
<lino.core.boundaction.BoundAction.get_row_permission>`.  The
difference is that the former will bypass any custom permission
handler defined on the model.  TODO: analyze what's missing there: is
it just lacking documentation?  Or an API design flaw?


New feedback for :ticket:`143`
==============================

I had a 90 minutes voice session with Gerd about :ticket:`143`.  Lots
of "little" things to do.  See :doc:`1228`.  I will work on them
occasionnaly during the Christmas days.  For most of them I don't
create a new ticket because this is rapid prototyping where too much
administrative tasks would disturb.

Specifying windows with relative width
======================================

I added a new feature (:ticket:`680`); applications can now specify
the width of a window in percent.  I adapted the docstring of
:attr:`window_size <lino.core.actors.Actor.window_size>`
accordingly. The first usage for this feature is
:class:`lino_cosi.lib.finan.models.SuggestionsByVoucher` which
requests a width of "90%".  This table should be in a window "as large
as possible but not full-screen".

Hamza, you will have to port this to extjs6.  See changes in
:xfile:`linoweb.js` and :mod:`lino.modlib.extjs.ext_renderer` (in
commit `705839c0
<https://gitlab.com/lino-framework/lino/commit/9b08c347d9e3f9fb68897672b38a99fb705839c0>`_).

