============================
Wednesday, December 30, 2015
============================

Final sprint for :ticket:`143`
==============================

I continued to work on a few remaining "little things to do" which
Gerd and I observed on :doc:`1223` for for :ticket:`143`:

DONE:

- German translation for "Married" must be "Verheiratet", not
  "Ehepartner". This was because :mod:`lino.modlib.humanlinks` used
  the label in a different context. I fixed the clash by changing
  "Married" to "Married couple" and "Divorced" to "Divorced couple" in 
  :mod:`lino.modlib.humanlinks`.
- Lino fragt jetzt eine Bestätigung vor dem Registrieren eines Buchhaltungsbelegs.
- Entregistrieren ist jetzt nur noch für :class:`LedgerStaff
  <lino_cosi.lib.ledger.roles.LedgerStaff>` (d.h. den Systemverwalter)
  erlaubt.

I then deployed these changes to their testlino so that they can test
it.  The following items will probably wait now until next year
because tomorrow I will run manual tests.

TODO:

- "Ihr Zeichen" --> "Referenz", "Beschreibung" --> "Interne Beschreibung".
- Bug: Zeile duplizieren, Betrag ändern, und dann auf move_up klicken.
  Funktioniert erst beim zweiten Klick.
- Eingabe Gesamtbetrag schon beim Erstellen? Funktioniert dann die Eingabe?
- Anweisungen mit HH-Artikel im Header (:ticket:`678`)

- Filterparameter im Fenster Buchungsvorschläge:
     - Handelsart raus
     - "Journal" umbenennen nach "Für Journal" und dort raus
     - neuer Parameter "von Journal" (d.h. nur Buchungen aus einem
       bestimmten Journal)

- Offene Buchungen Buchhaltung : Saldo fehlt

Adding a confirmation before registering a voucher was not trivial and
required a subtle framework optimization:
:meth:`lino.core.requests.Request.confirm` now runs the function
*directly* (i.e. skips the confirmation and acts as confirmation had
been given) when running in a non-interactive renderer.

