:date: 2023-01-23

===================================
Why our server was sending spam
===================================

Monday, January 23, 2023

Our server SR has been blocked once more by OVH (the data center) because it was
sending spam. This was the third time since January 8. Each time we thought that
we had identified and fixed the issue. The first two times we were obviously
wrong. The spammer was obviously the same because there are again 30000 mails in
our mailq, and they all claim to come from `mail10.lwspanel.com`

The first time, :doc:`two weeks ago <0109>`, I thought somebody had sniffed out
my password because I had been using Thunderbird from a relatively insecure
network. The second time we suspected dnswl.org to be somehow collaborate with
spammers.

Today Hannes and I worked together on this because two brains are more powerful
in parallel than in series. And now I think I know what happened: the spammer
used the account of one of our team members. I guess that the spammer used brute
force: we don't use fail2ban the username are publicly known, so they just
needed to try patiently enough.

The :file:`/var/log/mail.log` shows lines like these::

  Jan 23 15:13:09 saffre-rumma postfix/submission/smtpd[22461]: B8D82268DF: client=unknown[172.245.249.148], sasl_method=LOGIN, sasl_username=xxxxx

We changed the password of that user to a secure one. We removed the mails that
were still waiting in the mail queue. Then we told OVH to remove their block. I
am confident that this was the explanation.

Hannes isn't yet convinced that dnswl.org are innocent.
