:date: 2023-01-25

===========================
Wednesday, January 25, 2023
===========================

Uff, I finally published a full week of my work!

Insert images into arbitrary places using memo commands
=======================================================

Moved the `Mention` model from comments to memo.

The :mod:`lino.modlib.memo` plugin now creates a special :class:`BaseRequest`
instance that is used when parsing memo commands.

It is special in that its user is an instance of :class:`AnonymousUser` with
user_type `admin`

with admin rights. This is because we want to store the result of memo commands
in the preview fields of :class:`lino.modlib.memo.Previewable`. When a non-admin
user saves a blog entry that contains references to other database objects, then
the author maybe has no permission to see the detail of these objects, but other
users have.

The new model mixin :class:`lino.modlib.memo.MemoReferrable` eliminates quite
some boilerplate code.

In :func:`rstgen.sphinxconf.sigal_image.line2html` I renamed the format "couple"
to "duo". And I fixed a bug that caused duo and trio to be floating (wrapped by
their surrounding text).

.. rubric:: Data migration

in your :xfile:`restore.py` uncomment the line that loads
``comments_mention.py``. The :class:`lino.modlib.memo.Mention` objects will be
populated by :cmd:`pm checkdata -f`.

.. rubric:: En passant

I removed the :attr:`Site.max_file_size` setting because it was useless: Lino
would never get it because the server would make a disk overflow.


Documentation about Synodalsoft
===============================

I also have been working in the documentation during the last days. I started
the website for https:://www.synodalsoft.net

The :mod:`synodal` package is far from being perfectly, but it is already
useful. Soon we can remove the dependency of rstgen towards atelier.
