:date: 2023-07-21

=====================
Friday, July 21, 2023
=====================

I had the following traceback during :cmd:`getlino startsite`::

  (pilv) root@pilv:/home/luc# getlino startsite amici alpha
  Running as root.
  This is getlino version 23.7.0 running on Debian GNU/Linux 11 (bullseye) (debian bullseye).
  Preparing to reinstall amici to /usr/local/lino/lino_local/alpha
  Shared virtualenv []:
  Okay to reinstall amici to /usr/local/lino/lino_local/alpha? [y or n] Yes
  Overwrite existing file /usr/local/lino/lino_local/alpha/manage.py ? [y or n] Yes
  Overwrite existing file /usr/local/lino/lino_local/alpha/make_snapshot.sh ? [y or n] Yes
  Overwrite existing file /usr/local/lino/lino_local/alpha/asgi.py ? [y or n] Yes
  Installing 6 Python packages...
  run . /usr/local/lino/lino_local/alpha/env/bin/activate && pip install -q --upgrade daphne mysqlclient lino lino-amici lino-xl lino-react [y or n] Yes
  . /usr/local/lino/lino_local/alpha/env/bin/activate && pip install -q --upgrade daphne mysqlclient lino lino-amici lino-xl lino-react
  Overwrite existing file /etc/supervisor/conf.d/alpha-asgi.conf ? [y or n] Yes
  Overwrite existing file /etc/nginx/sites-available/alpha.conf ? [y or n] Yes
  run . /usr/local/lino/lino_local/alpha/env/bin/activate && python manage.py install --noinput [y or n] No
  run . /usr/local/lino/lino_local/alpha/env/bin/activate && python manage.py collectstatic --noinput [y or n] Yes
  . /usr/local/lino/lino_local/alpha/env/bin/activate && python manage.py collectstatic --noinput
  Run worker process ...
  Started manage.py collectstatic --noinput (using lino_local.alpha.settings) --> PID 1963049

  0 static files copied to '/usr/local/lino/lino_local/alpha/env/static_root', 4007 unmodified.
  Traceback (most recent call last):
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/alpha/manage.py", line 11, in <module>
      execute_from_command_line(sys.argv)
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/alpha/env/lib/python3.9/site-packages/lino/core/management/__init__.py", line 144, in execute_from_command_line
      stop_utility(argv)
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/alpha/env/lib/python3.9/site-packages/lino/core/management/__init__.py", line 121, in stop_utility
      sock = get_socket()
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/alpha/env/lib/python3.9/site-packages/lino/core/management/__init__.py", line 55, in get_socket
      sock.connect(str(worker_sock_file))
  FileNotFoundError: [Errno 2] No such file or directory
  Done manage.py collectstatic --noinput (PID 1963049)
  Error: . /usr/local/lino/lino_local/alpha/env/bin/activate && python manage.py collectstatic --noinput ended with return code 1

This getlino was running in a `sudo su` session. Afterwards I tried to reproduce
the error in a normal session and it didn't fail again::

  luc@pilv:~$ go alpha
  luc@pilv:/usr/local/lino/lino_local/alpha$ a
  (env) luc@pilv:/usr/local/lino/lino_local/alpha$ pm collectstatic
  Started manage.py collectstatic (using lino_local.alpha.settings) --> PID 1963126

  You have requested to collect static files at the destination
  location as specified in your settings:

      /usr/local/lino/lino_local/alpha/env/static_root

  This will overwrite existing files!
  Are you sure you want to do this?

  Type 'yes' to continue, or 'no' to cancel: yes

  0 static files copied to '/usr/local/lino/lino_local/alpha/env/static_root', 4007 unmodified.
  Done manage.py collectstatic (PID 1963126)


Unfortunately the message "FileNotFoundError: [Errno 2] No such file or
directory" is not very helpful. We would want to know the name of the file it
was trying to connect to. So I changed :func:`lino.core.management.get_socket`
to be more verbose in the future.
