:date: 2023-07-25

=====================================
Blacklisted by UCEPROTECT -- so what!
=====================================

Tuesday, July 25, 2023

Our main mail server, ``saffre-rumma.net``, is currently blacklisted by
UCEPROTECTL3. Which (according to `mxtoolbox.com
<https://mxtoolbox.com/Problem/Blacklist/UCEPROTECTL3/?page=prob_blacklist&ip=51.68.71.43&link=button&action=blacklist:51.68.71.43&showLogin=1&hidetoc=1&reason=127.0.0.2>`__)
means that our IP address "falls into a poor reputation range. The entire range
of IP addresses is blocked because the provider (OVH in our case) also hosts
spammers. UCEPROTECTL3 does not offer any form of manual request to delist. Our
IP address will automatically expire from listing after some time."

`uceprotect.net <http://www.uceprotect.net/en/rblcheck.php?ipr=51.68.71.43>`__
says that "UCEPROTECT Level 3 is the highest possible escalation: complete
Autonomus Systems (AS) get listed at Level 3 if there were too many impacts from
IP's listed in Level 1 originating from said AS within the last 7 days. OVH has
**4,197,632** IP addresses and **609** of these have been level 1 listed abusers
within the last 7 days."

I was seriously considering to move away from OVH to another provider. But then
I contacted them and submitted `support request ticket 8121647
<https://www.ovh.com/manager/#/dedicated/support/tickets/8121647>`__ with the
following text:

  uceprotect.net recommends us to "send a complaint to your provider and request
  they fix this problem immediately. Think about this: You pay them so that you
  can use the Internet without problems; if they are ignoring your complaint or
  claiming they can't do anything, you should consider changing your provider.
  There are currently about 105,000 providers worldwide, but only a few hundred
  make it to get listed into UCEPROTECT-Level 3."

..
  OVH asked me to read `FAQ VPS OVHcloud
  <https://help.ovhcloud.com/csm/en-gb-vps-faq?id=kb_article_view&sysparm_article=KB0035158>`__
  before submitting.

They answered to my support ticket as follows:

  Since January 2021, UCE Protect has placed our ASN (AS16276) on their
  blacklist like many others.

  You can see this by clicking on the following link:
  http://www.uceprotect.net/en/l3charts.php

  Our Trust and Safety legal abuse team is unable to contact UCE Protect to
  rectify the situation. Indeed, any attempt to communicate with them requires a
  paid subscription, which OVHcloud does not wish to take out.

  As a result, we have no idea why our ASN has been blacklisted.

  To date, we have found that no e-mail provider uses UCE Protect in their spam
  filters.

  If this affects you, we recommend the following:

  1. Prioritize an IPv6 configuration for sending e-mail, as UCE Protect does
  not blacklist e-mails sent via IPv6.  All our OVHcloud services come with at
  least one IPv6 address that you can configure. All major e-mail providers now
  support IPv6.

  Below you'll find documentation to help you configure your IPv6:
  https://help.ovhcloud.com/csm/fr-vps-configuring-ipv6?id=kb_article_view&sysparm_article=KB0047576

  2. Ask the receiving party to contact their e-mail provider to stop using UCE
  Protect in their anti-spam filters.

  We invite you to consult the following guide for best practices in sending
  your e-mails: https://docs.ovh.com/fr/dedicated/optimiser-envoi-emails/

  OVHcloud is committed to an open and reliable Cloud. Thanks to the cooperation
  of users like you, we'll be able to continually improve our service in the
  future.

Other observations:

- https://www.mail-tester.com/test-4bf413oij gives our email server a score of
  9.50/10

- I can witness that OVH does monitor their IP addresses and blocks them
  successfully when they start spamming. One of our servers once got hacked and
  was being misused for spamming, and OVH blocked our server within minutes,
  informed us about the situation and provided an easy method for unblocking our
  IP address after having fixed our problem.


Related tickets:

- :ticket:`3936` (167.114.229.225 has been blacklisted UCEPROTECTL3)
  (167.114.229.225 was the IP address of lino-framework.org from
  :doc:`2019-10-12 </blog/2019/1012>`) to 2021-03-14.

- :ticket:`5088` (Client host 51.68.71.43 blocked by cbl.mailcore.net in reply
  to RCPT TO command)

My summary
==========

As of 2023-12-29, my summary is that UCEPROTECT lives from blackmailing Internet
providers, asking them money for being delisted. OVH just refuses to give in. I
honor their civil courage. Only a minority of email providers actually trust in
the UCEPROTECT blacklist. The following email providers still trust UCEPROTECT
(and thus I cannot send any email to users of these):

- mailcore.net (PDR Ltd. d/b/a PublicDomainRegistry.com in Bulgaria),
  the mail server behind addresses **@hot.ee** and **@online.ee**
- one.com (One.com Group AB in Sweden)
