:date: 2023-10-15

=======================================================
Some fundamental changes in background jobs and logging
=======================================================

Sunday, October 15, 2023

I pushed yet another series of changes in :mod:`lino.modlib.linod` and
:mod:`lino.core.logging`: `2023-10-15 16:10
<https://gitlab.com/lino-framework/lino/-/commit/f39dc46616744f60acf62e7151d1a70a31139d58>`__.
They are a follow-up of my changes from 4 days ago: `2023-10-11 09:05
<https://gitlab.com/lino-framework/lino/-/commit/19131f56f51bb321ad01e986410096c3e388837b>`__


I have been working more than a week on this.  It all started with a customer
who observed that a background job apparently was not running. Ticket
:ticket:`5172` (lino_runworker is running but doesn't work).

We no longer have a history of the individual background job runs. If I want
that, I can consult the :xfile:`lino.log` file. What we want is a detailed log
of the last run. And we want a way to manually set a higher logging level for an
individual job.

A side effect is the log server.  I partly rewrote how we had been doing things
for :ticket:`4595﻿` (Multiple Lino processes logging to single file). And this
time it is also about :ticket:`5179` (Write to lino.log even when log server is
not running). The decision whether a Lino process writes directly to the
:xfile:`lino.log` or logs via a socket server does not depend on whether we are
in an async environment. The processes now simply check whether the socket file
exists. If it exists, they connect to the log server, otherwise they write
directly to the file.  On a production site the log server is supposed to run as
a consumer in :manage:`linod`. The :manage:`linod` process is responsible for
starting the log server. All other processes become clients of that server when
the socket file exists and otherwise write to the file themselves.
