========================
Tuesday, January 5, 2016
========================

Signal Messenger
================

I started to have a look at `Signal messenger
<https://whispersystems.org/>`_.  My biggest concern is not security
and privacy, but whether I can retrieve my chat history and write it
to an arbitrary storage (e.g. a database) for archiving.

There is some `API <https://open-whisper-systems.readme.io/docs>`_,
but I did not yet understand whether that's what I am looking for.


AttributeError: 'Journal' object has no attribute 'chart'
=========================================================

Gerd reported :ticket:`687` (Kann keinen Haushaltsartikel auswählen in
REG). This was a bug introduced shortly before the upgrade and not
covered by the test suite. I fixed the bug (in
:mod:`lino_cosi.lib.ledger.mixins`) and added a test case (in
:ref:`welfare.specs.r20160105`) so that this is now covered.

Ticket :ticket:`689` is another example of a bug which was not covered
by the test suite.  I added a test case (in :ref:`welfare.specs.pcsw`)
and fixed the bug (in :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.pcsw.models`).

Ticket :ticket:`690` (also reported by Gerd) is rather an ergonomic
problem than a bug: after changing Client.faculty field, the users are
used to have the AvailableAgentsByClient table update automatically.



Breaking the vicious circle
===========================

An Estonian friend sent me this link: `Belgium: Muslims screaming
“Allahu akbar” set Christmas tree on fire
<http://www.jihadwatch.org/2016/01/belgium-muslims-screaming-allahu-akbar-set-christmas-tree-on-fire>`_.
Yes, it hurts to read news like this, and the comments aren't
encouraging, either.  Yes, actions of hatress cause reactions of
hatress.  Yes, the phenomen of militant religious zealotry is a
serious problem.

But note also that this `jihadwatch.org
<http://www.jihadwatch.org/why-jihad-watch>`_ site is developed and
maintained by `an anonymous individual Islam hater
<https://freespeechdefense.net/about/>`_ and has no intention of
seeking reconciliation or peace.  He does *not* want e.g. mercy or
forgiveness. His motivation is to fight for *justice*.  Fighting for
justice *on your own* is called `lynching
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lynching>`_.

I continue to say: 

(1) If we want to live in peace on this planet, the only solution is
    to break the vicious circle of hatress and violence.  It is not
    possible to get there using violence.

(2) Many humans are obviously too stupid or undereducated to
    understand (1).

(3) Terrorism comes when a sufficiently big group of such humans gets
    sufficently well organized.

(4) If you want to help making this world a better place, invest into
    strategies and projects which *reduce* hatress and fear and
    *promote* reconciliation and peace.


Today I booked plane tickets and will fly to Belgium for two weeks on
January 29th. Shortly afterwards, 
