==========================
Wednesday, January 6, 2016
==========================

I fixed :ticket:`694` (AttributeError: 'str' object has no attribute
'get_age') and added a test case to :ref:`welfare.specs.households`.
Same for :ticket:`697` and :ticket:`698`.  I also finished to adapt
the :ref:`voga` test suite which was broken mostly due to
:ticket:`143`.

Yesterday's fix for :ticket:`690` (Zuweisen Begleiter braucht Ctrl-S)
was satisfying, *but* it introduced :ticket:`695` (ClientDetail
doesn't open for IntegrationAgent), a rather disturbing regression for
the integration agents.  This turned out to be a nasty **bug in the
Javascript code**. These are not currently being covered by the test
suite, and every change can cause an avalanche of other regressions.

Explanation: the fix for #690 consisted in making the `Client.faculty`
field active. Active fields get an additional line in the Javascript
code of `Lino.pcsw.Clients.DetailFormPanel<.initComponent()`::

    faculty1234.on('change', function(){ this.save() }, this);

This code is generated by `js_render_FormPanelSubclass
<lino.core.modlib.extjs.ext_renderer.ExtRenderer.js_render_FormPanelSubclass>`_.

The problem was that this field is in a panel which is not visible to
integration agents. So the field does not exist in their Javascript.
One difficulty here was that field elements don't actually have a
permission handler. The view permission of a field is granted (or not)
by the containing panel.  My solution was to have the :meth:`walk
<lino.utils.jsgen.Component.walk>` method filter out all elements that
are not visible.

A quicksearch field for the bootstrap interface
===============================================

I worked with Sandeep on :ticket:`679` (New features for the bootstrap
interface).

We had a look at http://belref.lino-framework.org/countries/Countries
where the problem is visible.

We discovered an important advice to follow when organizing your
working environment: keep the three root directories (for
:xfile:`virtualenvs`, :file:`repositories` and :xfile:`projects`)
independent from each other. Virtualenvs should be "cheap" directories
(easily created, easily thrown away). Your :file:`repositories` and
:xfile:`projects` should not be under a virtualenv.

Sandeep, when you got your local ccopy of the
:mod:`lino.projects.belref` project up and running, then I recommend
the following links:

- Read the docstring of :mod:`lino.utils.xmlgen.html`.

- Inspect the source code of
  :meth:`lino.core.tablerequest.TableRequest.dump2html` and
  :func:`lino.modlib.bootstrap3.views.table2html`.

- Note the template :linosrcref:`table.html
  <lino/modlib/bootstrap3/config/bootstrap3/table.html>` (a `Jinja
  <http://jinja.pocoo.org/>`_ template) which uses a context variable
  `main`, which is defined by
  :class:`lino.modlib.bootstrap3.views.List` using :func:`table2html
  <lino.modlib.bootstrap3.views.table2html>`.
