=========================
Tuesday, January 19, 2016
=========================

I continued on :ticket:`584`: the training report ("fiche stagiaire")
is now printable. And by the way it uses our new build method
wkhtmltopdf (it's a first fireproof for :ticket:`692`).  The Welfare
test suite is still broken, but for the moment I don't care, because
it is more efficient to wait with that work until the new features are
more or less stable.


I fixed the first part of :ticket:`728` and released it to our Lino
Noi.  (new table StarsByController in "Changes" tab). We can now have
discussions with more than two participants.

The link "Write comment" is now at the *top* of the description (and
no longer at the bottom). That's important when there are more
comments than those which fit to the panel.

The release caused a side effect of :ticket:`692` to occur.  I
received a few dozen of error mails "Internal Server Error:
/favicon.ico".  That was because of the upgrade to the new
:setting:`TEMPLATES` setting.  When rendering a template (like the
`500.html`), names `ar` and `now` were no longer added to the context
because of the new templateing configuration.

Note that this side effect had slipped through the test suite, and in
order to catch it, we would have to run tests using settings where
:setting:`DEBUG` is set to `False`. For the moment this seems
overkill...

I fixed :ticket:`730` : :class:`LedgerStaff
<lino_welfare.modlib.welfare.roles.LedgerStaff>` did not yet see
accounts and account groups in their configuraton menu.  Because these
tables are defined in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.accounts`.  We plan to merge
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.accounts` into :mod:`lino_xl.lib.accounting` one
day. (That day was :doc:`/blog/2018/0829`).

