=========================
Tuesday, January 26, 2016
=========================

Things to read
==============

Ned Batchelder wrote a `blog entry
<http://nedbatchelder.com/blog/201601/python_testing_book_and_podcast.html>`_
about Harry Percival's book called Test-Driven Development with
Python.  I plan to `read it online
<http://www.obeythetestinggoat.com/>`_ in order to decide whether it
is good for us.

Another interesting reading was
`How do you estimate on an Agile project?
<http://info.thoughtworks.com/rs/thoughtworks2/images/twebook-perspectives-estimation_1.pdf>`_. Summary:

- Why do we estimate?
  - Purpose of Estimation -- Martin Fowler

- How do we estimate?
  - All about Points -- Anand Vishwanath
  - Stop saying “estimate” -- JK Werner
  - The Bucket Theory -- Malcolm Beaton
  - Using points is not the point -- Juliano Bersano
  - Estimating without points -- Ian Carroll

- In Practice
  - Estimating on a distributed team -- Jiangmei Kang
  - How story counts worked for us -- Huimin Li


Start using `User Stories
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_story>`_? Can we manage user
stories simply by entering them as a ticket?



Defining holidays which depend on Easter
========================================

I started to work on :ticket:`745` by writing a new chapter
:ref:`voga.specs.holidays` in the specs of Lino Voga.  Later I even
moved most of this document to the Lino repository
:ref:`lino.specs.holidays`

The ticket basically adds a possibility to specify recurrencies of
type "every year X days before/after Easter". For this we will use the
`easter()
<https://labix.org/python-dateutil#head-8863c4fc47132b106fcb00b9153e3ac0ab486a0d>`_
function of `dateutil`.

Code changes in 
:class:`EventGenerator <lino.modlib.cal.mixins.EventGenerator>`, 
:class:`RecurrenceSet <lino.modlib.cal.mixins.RecurrenceSet>` and 
:class:`Recurrencies <lino.modlib.cal.choicelists.Recurrencies>`.




