===========================
Wednesday, January 27, 2016
===========================

A (hopefully) last thing for :ticket:`745`: One test in
:ref:`lino.specs.holidays` passed only yesterday because it mentioned
the upper date limit
which depends on the current system date at server startup.

To fix this, the default value of :attr:`ignore_dates_after
<lino.modlib.cal.Plugin.ignore_dates_after>` is no longer
"approcimately 5 years after server startup" but "(exactly) 5 years
after :meth:`today <lino.core.site.Site.today>`.

While I was there, I moved the configuration settings
:attr:`ignore_dates_before
<lino.modlib.cal.Plugin.ignore_dates_before>` and
:attr:`ignore_dates_after <lino.modlib.cal.Plugin.ignore_dates_after>`
from :class:`lino.core.site.Site` to :class:`lino.modlib.cal.Plugin`.
Because this setting is rather specific and therefore should be in the
:mod:`lino.modlib.cal` plugin.

In :mod:`lino.core.auth` I changed a subtle rule: when no "user
language" is set, or for anonymous requests, it no longer forces the
site's default language but relies on the language set by Django's
`django.middleware.locale.LocaleMiddleware`.

And then -- instead of working on :ticket:`584` -- I invested some
more time into :ticket:`632` and started to write a function
:func:`lino.api.doctest.screenshot`. I also optimized the
:mod:`lino.api.selenium` API (runserver now automatically starts and
stops the firefox driver).

I received ticket :ticket:`751`.  Tried to reproduce it (in
:mod:`lino.utils.xmlgen.html` and :mod:`lino.utils.html2odf`) without
success. The problem is in :mod:`lino.modlib.appypod` which raises an
exception because it sees an unknown type name.


A little optimization to the :cmd:`pp` command
(:file:`atelier/scripts/per_project`). When I invoke e.g. ``pp fab
initdb test bd`` in order to run a complete test suite, and if some
failure occurs, then it can be difficult to guess in which project it
occured.


After 45 minutes with Alexa we found two more optimizations for Lino
Voga (:ticket:`753` and :ticket:`754`) which I fixed quickly.  (They
are for Lino Voga, but the changes themselves are in
:mod:`lino_cosi.lib.courses`.)  Also some German translations.

Another ticket (:ticket:`752`) needs some meditation: When an
automatically generated event conflicts with another event, then
Lino --until now-- tries to find an "alternative" date for the event.
We need to think about this rule. We cannot just say "the first event
wins". For example Easter Monday is always on Easter Monday, Lino must
not move it to Tuesday just because there is already another
accidental calendar event on that date.

(Checkin)

I installed my first virtual environment under Python 3 and discovered
on my machine the installation was different than what Hamza had
written for his machine in `Lino and Python 3
<http://lino-framework.org/dev/py3.html>`_. Debian has no package
"pip3".


Two new tickets by Aurélie: :ticket:`755` and :ticket:`756`.
#755 was easy, but #756 must wait.

(Checkin)

Then I solved ticket :ticket:`752`, and I even wrote a test case (in
:mod:`lino_voga.projects.docs.tests.tests_faggio`).

(Checkin)

A course series in German is not "Kursserie" but "Kursreihe".
