========================
Monday, February 1, 2016
========================

Today I can report three success stories from three different
continents.

The Lino Voga team
==================

I had a meeting with **Roger in Eupen (Belgium)**.  The Lino Voga
project had been sleeping for more than a year because they were
hesitating between different solutions, two proprietary products, one
self-made solution using Microsoft Access, and Lino Voga.  Now we
found an agreement about how to collaborate.  They plan to start using
Lino Voga during the next year and to contribute time into analysis
and testing.

This decision is a great success for Lino.  In order to celebrate the
historic event I returned the next day and made a photo of the
principal actors:

.. sigal_image:: 2016/02/02/dsc02449.jpg

(Sitting: Sydney, Alexa, Roger and Monique)



A new aspirant core developer
=============================

Today I also had my first chat with **Princewell in Enugu (Nigeria)**
who discovered Lino and is eager to join our team.  There are serious
chances that he will be the third core developer who is being paid for
his work by Rumma & Ko.  I noticed for example that `TransferWise
<https://transferwise.com/>`_ offer money transfers to Nigeria for a
reasonable price.  We agreed that he will do some voluntary
contributions before we start to speak about money.


He describes himself as a "Junior software engineer with over 2 years
of experience providing thorough and skillful support to senior
executives. Strong communication, interpersonal, and presentation
skills. Familiar with HTML, Flask, Python, Django, Postgresql,
Sqlite3, Sql, jQuery, javascript, Linux, nginx and also open to new
knowledge. Motivated self-starter; able to spark interest and take
initiative."  He also keeps a blog `Life in Programming
<http://transformingthings.blogspot.be/>`_ (only two posts so far, but
I know that blogging depends on many circumstances).

Internet connection in Nigeria has obviously a lower quality/price
ratio than in Belgium or Estonia. Princewell pays more money for his
Internet connection than I do, but had serious problems to download
the Lino repository from GitHub. We found out (from the `github API
<https://api.github.com/repos/lsaffre/lino>`_) that Lino's size is
currently 180 MB.




First code contribution from India
==================================

And then congratulations to **Sandeep in Mumbai (India)** who has
introduced his first code contribution, a fix for :ticket:`706`.

Here is how I merged his changes into Lino's master::

    $ git status
    On branch master
    Your branch is up-to-date with 'origin/master'.

    $ git remote add sandeep https://github.com/sandeez/lino.git
    $ git pull sandeep master

    $ git status
    On branch master
    Your branch is ahead of 'origin/master' by 1 commit.
      (use "git push" to publish your local commits)

    nothing to commit, working directory clean

    $ git push

That last `push` to GitHub was a bit too quick: I should have run the
test suite first. Okay that's why we have Travis and Drone, they
notified me about the `failed build
<https://drone.io/github.com/lsaffre/lino/198>`_.  Yesterday on his
machine it still worked, but now he can reproduce it.  Maybe some
change did not get merged correctly?  We are investigating.

