==========================
Saturday, February 6, 2016
==========================

Advancing with Lino Voga
========================

**Continuous courses** are a new concept in :ref:`voga`. It is another
way of managing enrolments to a course. While a classical course has a
fixed and previously known series of calendar events, a continuous
course is running all the time. Participants pay a fee which gives
them permission to assist in a number of events, and then they come
and go.

I removed the rule that the :attr:`enrolments_until
<lino_cosi.lib.courses.models.Course.enrolments_until>` of a course is
set to its 
:attr:`start_date <lino_cosi.lib.courses.models.Course.start_date>`.
Because there are continuous courses

The Roger variant of :ref:`voga` has referrable courses. Last year
they introduced a "reference number" for every single course. TODO:
what will happen next year with these numbers? I suggest to change the
`ref` of the 2016 courses with "2016" so that the known references can
be reused for the corresponding 2017 course.

TODO: where should the new `Course.ref` appear? 


The :class:`lino.modlib.about.models.About` window now shows the
:attr:`languages <lino.core.site.Site.languages>` of that site.



ValueError: dictionary update sequence element #0 has length NN; 2 is required
==============================================================================

This comes because wkhtmltopdf needs a manual patch in 
:file:`site-packages/wkhtmltopdf/utils.py`::

    def render_to_temporary_file(template, context, mode='w+b', bufsize=-1,
                                     suffix='.html', prefix='tmp', dir=None,
                                     delete=True):
        # deactivated by Luc Saffre 20160206
        # make sure the context is a context object
        # if not isinstance(context, (Context, RequestContext)):
        #     context = Context(context)

        content = smart_text(template.render(context))
        content = make_absolute_paths(content)



And then I still had the following error:

  CalledProcessError: Command '['wkhtmltopdf', '--encoding', u'utf8',
  '--quiet', '/tmp/wkhtmltopdfQW_4es.html', '-']' returned non-zero
  exit status -6


This was because the wkhtmltopdf system package (not python) is 
0.12.1 instead of 0.9.9.

It's a `known bug
<http://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/192642/wkhtmltopdf-qxcbconnection-could-not-connect-to-display>`_. Here
is how to demonstrate it::

    $ wkhtmltopdf --encoding utf8 --quiet test.html -
    QXcbConnection: Could not connect to display 
    Aborted

Solution was to 

- install `xvfb
  <https://packages.debian.org/fr/wheezy/xvfb<`_ (``sudo apt-get
  install xvfb`` 

- and to add to my :xfile:`settings.py` file::

    WKHTMLTOPDF_CMD = 'xvfb-run wkhtmltopdf'


Lino goes Wikipedia
===================

Oh cool, Hamza started a Wikipedia article about Lino:

  `Lino (web framework)
  <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Draft:Lino_%28web_framework%29>`__

Contributions and ideas are welcome! I'll try to stay in background...
