=========================
Sunday, February 14, 2016
=========================

Yesterday night I returned home after two weeks in Eupen. Two weeks
with Iiris and without Ly and Mari. Two weeks with my parents who are
getting old.  Two weeks in the town where I was born and have been
living for 30 years. And two weeks in the town with the highest Lino
activity in the world. **Both my mail inbox and my to-do list are
overflowing; Don't panic. I am doing my best --and not more!**

But what the best thing to do when your to-do list is overflowing?
Especially on Sunday mornings it can be something absolutely
irrational. That's what I did this morning. I started to explore and
discover `reddit.com <https://www.reddit.com/user/lsaffre/>`_. I had
an account there for some time, but never actively used it.

The problem with reddit is that it makes my to-do list longer, not
shorter.  Yesterday during the flight I read `The Why You Are Here
Café` by `John Strelecky`.  Nice little story.  An interesting detail
is how I got this book: Roger gave me the advice to read it at the end
of our second meeting. And two days later, Alexa passed by and gave it
to me, as a gift from Roger.  Yes, Roger, this book confirms what I
believe: I am here because God wants me to do something.  The meaning
of life is to do what God wants me to do.  And of course the question
then is how to find out what it is he wants us to do.  My answer to
that question is "Choose those activities which give you joy, real and
long-term joy".  But that's philosophy...

