=====================
Friday, March 4, 2016
=====================

I am continuing to work on cpas2lino (i.e. importing legacy data from
their TIM database to Lino). This is part of :ticket:`143`.

When you know the the voucher model, how to find out the model of the
items of that voucher type?

>>> from lino import startup
>>> startup('lino_welfare.projects.eupen.settings.doctests')
>>> from lino.api.doctest import *
>>> vatless.AccountInvoice.items.rel.related_model
<class 'lino_cosi.lib.vatless.models.InvoiceItem'>

I added a new method
:meth:`VoucherType.get_items_model<lino_cosi.lib.ledger.choicelists.VoucherType.get_items_model>`.

:mod:`lino.utils.dbfreader` fails to loop through big database files
which contained long sequences of *deleted* records. Workaround is to
open it with `deleted=True` and to filter yourself all deleted
records.

:mod:`lino.utils.dbfreader` also had some problems with date fields.


"Interne Referenz" ("Gegenstand") und "Externe Referenz"
========================================================

I changed the label of
:attr:`lino_cosi.lib.finan.mixins.FinancialVoucherItem.remark` from
"Remark" to "External reference". The internal name of this field
"remark" is suboptimal.

Einiges an Aufwand verursachten mir die Überlegungen, wie ich die
beiden Felder `NB1` und `NB2` (die es in TIM jeweils pro IMP und pro
IML gibt) nach Lino importiere.

========= ========== ============
TIM       invoice    financial
========= ========== ============
IMP->NB1  narration  narration
--------- ---------- ------------
IMP->NB2  your_ref   item_remark
--------- ---------- ------------
IML->NB1  --         --
--------- ---------- ------------
IML->NB2  title      remark
========= ========== ============


Beide Felder sind Beschreibungen einer Transaktion. NB1 ist "für
internen Gebrauch2 und NB2 "für externen Gebrauch".

Macht die NB1 pro IML Sinn? Wird das benutzt in TIM? Ich kann mir
momentan kein Beispiel vorstellen.

Released Atelier 0.0.18
=======================

I did an official release of :mod:`atelier` (version 0.0.18) because
the new function :func:`atelier.utils.last_day_of_month` is needed by
:ref:`xl`.

It was mabye a bad idea to add this function to atelier. Maybe we
should rather move all `dateutil` utility functions (also
e.g. :func:`i2d <atelier.utils.i2d>`) from Atelier to Lino. To be
continued.


Deleting all rows of a table
============================

INFO:lino.api.dd:Delete 41090 rows from <class 'lino_cosi.lib.finan.models.PaymentOrderItem'>.


Commits
=======

I started to run tests on their server and therefore made a series of
commits (in Lino, Lino XL, :ref:`welfare` and :ref:`cosi`).

The following commands will run a few times on their server this
weekend:

  $ time python manage.py cpas2lino /mnt/oeshz_home_server/ANWPROG/TIM/CPAS

A typical run lasts almost 2.5 hours::

    real	142m53.273s
    user	113m17.580s
    sys	1m59.704s

Here are the (slightly modified) last lines of output of
:manage:`cpas2lino`:

.. literalinclude:: 0304.py

I will talk with the customer about these on Monday.

