========================
Saturday, March 12, 2016
========================

Still working on :ticket:`825`. 

Found one problem (the lazy objects created by
:meth:`lino.core.choicelists.ChoiceList.display_text` worked only for
`newstr`, not for `six.text_type`.

The error is so difficult to find because something is hiding the real
traceback. I see only "'NoneType' object has no attribute 'groups'"
but have no idea which code causes this.

I decided to attack from another side: I repair the test suite for
Voga. Maybe the same bug appears there in another form. Or maybe I get
new ideas.  I didn't do this until now because officially Hamza is
working on it.  But Hamza is sleeping right now (or at least I hope so
(time shift 2 hours)) and did not commit anything yesterday.
Theoretically we should do this together because this conversion is
really very complex and we can learn from each other here.  But I am
in a hurry because this is blocking both Voga and Welfare where three
important customers are waiting for results.

Ha! And I found one bug with a probably wide area of possible
consequences: :meth:`str2kw` did not return a unicode (i.e. a
`newstr`) but an encoded string.

And then some (meanwhile) trivial changes. Yes it is a pity that we
didn't do this together. But okay.  So here is another set of commits
in lino, xl, cosi and voga (which together fix the voga test suite).

Unfortunately this bug was not the cause for my "'NoneType' object has
no attribute 'groups'" problem.

But we are now almost there. Our last problem (for :ticket:`36`) is::

  'NoneType' object has no attribute 'groups'

which occurs both in :ref:`noi` and in :ref:`welfare` during :cmd:`fab
initdb`.  It is probably caused by the fact that these projects use
:ref:`appy` which is not yet futurized.


Update (9h38) : I found the place which causes the exception: it is in
:mod:`appy.shared.css`. So yes, we need to futurize appy.

The futurize script broke the following code (in appy) by changing::

    from appy.shared.zip import unzip, zip
    zip(fileName, tempFolder, odf=True)

into::

    from builtins import zip
    from appy.shared.zip import unzip, zip
    list(zip(fileName, tempFolder, odf=True))

