======================
Friday, March 18, 2016
======================

Lino as a lightweight alternative for Odoo
==========================================

Cool: Hamza mentioned Lino in a `discussion on Twitter
<https://twitter.com/Yenthe666/status/709833406738210816>`_) about a
lightweight alternative to Odoo.  And Daniel Reis (Author of the `Odoo
Development Essentials
<https://www.packtpub.com/big-data-and-business-intelligence/odoo-development-essentials>`_
book) said "Nice, it looks like Lino fixes some of the issues with
Django. Worth taking a look."  (`[*]
<https://twitter.com/reis_pt/status/710600946989010944>`__)


:ticket:`36` is *almost* done
=============================

Hamza's statement "The migration to Extjs6 and the port to Py3 are the
main underway tasks." in above discussion made me think "What? Is
Python 3 support only *underway*? Is it not *done*?"  But Hamza is
right: :ticket:`36` is *almost* done, but not completely. I had to
acknowledge this after running::

  $ . ~/pythonenvs/py3/bin/activate
  $ pp inv test


I adapted `commondata <https://github.com/lsaffre/commondata>`__
(including 
`be <https://github.com/lsaffre/commondata-be>`__,
`et <https://github.com/lsaffre/commondata-et>`__ and
`eg <https://github.com/lsaffre/commondata-eg>`__)
so that they pass under Python 3.

And then I decided that I will leave these things to Hamza.

I also noticed that my last changes in :mod:`lino.core.site` broke it
in Python 3.  And the output of :cmd:`inv ci` is not colored. I guess
it is the same reason as for the other problem that the output of
:cmd:`inv test` has no newlines.

Miscellaneous
=============

I adapted the Welfare test suite after :ticket:`833`.

In :mod:`atelier.test` there was this function::

    def interpreter_args():
        if 'coverage' in sys.modules:
            return ['coverage', 'run']
        return [sys.executable]

I now deactivated the following lines::

        if 'coverage' in sys.modules:
            return ['coverage', 'run']

Because it seems that they were *not* needed for getting the coverage
of 34% , and because they caused occasionally to all kinds of commands
be run under coverage when we didn't ask for it.
