=======================
Tuesday, March 22, 2016
=======================

I continued to work on :ticket:`834` (Install Lino on welstv).

05h45 : Uff, I finally got :manage:`initdb_demo` to run on their site!
The problems were mostly due to recent internal changes and appeared
only now either because our test coverage is not perfect.  The last
problem (reported :doc:`0320`) was because
:mod:`lino.utils.html2xhtml` requires the `HTML Tidy library
<http://tidy.sourceforge.net/>`__ to be installed on the system.
There was also yet another encoding problem :meth:`dd.babel2kw
<lino.core.site.Site.babel2kw>` caused by futurize's `newstr`
(i.e. :ticket:`36`).

Hamza is now working full speed on :ticket:`37`.  Yesterday evening we
had another voice session with shared screen.  Now I merged his `pull
request <https://github.com/lsaffre/lino_extjs6/pull/18>`_ into the
master of :mod:`lino_extjs6`.

I committed my changes to lino, xl, welfare and logos.


Voice session with Alexa.

I tried to reproduce :ticket:`841`. We have a duplicated participant
there (ID 261 and ID 1391). And when trying to merge them, we get a
server taceback ending with `IntegrityError: (1062, "Duplicate entry
'261' for key 'PRIMARY'")`. But we did not yet find out how to
reproduce this situation.

We need a third item in `courses.CourseStates`. Until now we had
"draft" and "registered". The "draft" remains, all "registered"
courses become "active", and there is a new state "inactive". This
last state means: the general course conditions have been discussed
and fixed, and user can start to create enrolments, but the course
will start only when there are enough participants.

And a fourth CourseState "closed". Lino Voga will certainly need it.

These changes will also be visible in :ref:`cpaschatelet`. I deliberately
didn't ask their opinion because I can always go back for them if they
don't want it.

A Status Report for Lino Voga
=============================

I added a report called "Belegstatus" (:ticket:`842`).  It is a
document they currently print out every morning.  I implemented it as
:class:`lino_voga.lib.courses.models.StatusReport` and also installed
it to the :meth:`get_admin_main_items
<lino.core.site.Site.get_admin_main_items>` for
:mod:`lino_voga.projects.base`.

This was the first EmptyTable which I wanted to print using
`wkhtmltopdf` instead of `appypod`.  This required some internal
optimizations, but I like the result: We now have a generic template
for printing such global reports.


`wkhtmltopdf` still does not yet have page header and footer. The
challenge with this is that we want to have them configurable. So they
should be named 'FOO_header.wk.html'. But they should be optional.

http://wkhtmltopdf.org/usage/wkhtmltopdf.txt

But then I got this::

  The switch --footer-left, is not support using unpatched qt, and will be ignored.

What means "unpatched qt"?
`Wow!
<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/10981960/wkhtmltopdf-patched-qt>`_
It seems that it will be rather hard to
get headers and footers into a wkhtmltopdf document!

For the moment I switch back to appypdf as default_build_method for
Lino Voga.



Unsupported locale setting
==========================

Another little problem occured maybe after upgrading pip:

>>> import locale
>>> locale.setlocale(locale.LC_ALL, '')
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
  File "/lib/python2.7/locale.py", line 579, in setlocale
    return _setlocale(category, locale)
locale.Error: unsupported locale setting


I solved this by setting :envvar:`LC_ALL` to `en_US.utf-8` in
:file:`/etc/environment` (`thanks
<http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1720356>`_).
