=========================
Wednesday, March 23, 2016
=========================

More report optimization
========================

The :class:`JobsOverview
<lino_welfare.modlib.jobs.models.JobsOverview>` report was failing
after yesterday's internal optimizations.  It took me yet another hour
to repair it. But the result is cool: we no longer need the
:file:`JobsOverview/Default.odt` template, and the functional spec
(:ref:`welfare.specs.jobs`) now also tests the *content* of this
report.

Yet another example of why a developer should be paid *per month* (or
*per hour*), but not *per ticket*.


Importing legacy data into Lino Welfare
=======================================

During a phone metting with Wilfried I understood a few more
things. We must import only disbursement orders, nothing else. And
Wilfried now gave me a complete list of the accounts (budgetary
articles) to import.

I adapted :manage:`cpas2lino`. Here is some doctest snippet which I
used for basic temporary tests before committing.

>>> from lino import startup
>>> startup('lino_welfare.projects.eupen.settings.doctests')
>>> from lino_welfare.modlib.welfare.management.commands.cpas2lino \
...     import wanted_accounts
>>> for obj in wanted_accounts():
...     obj.full_clean()
...     # obj.save()
...     print(obj)
(832/330/03B) Heizölzulage (durch Staat bezuschusst)
(832/330/05) Sozio-kulturelle Beteiligung (Allgemein)
...
(832-4653/03) Erstatt. an Staat von Einn. 832/-3343/21

Just as a reminder to myself, here are the commands to run on the
server::

  $ go testlino
  $ a
  $ time python manage.py run ../cpas_eupen/snapshot/restore.py
  $ python manage.py run create_journals.py 
  $ cat delete_ledger.sql | python manage.py dbshell
  $ time python manage.py cpas2lino /mnt/oeshz_home_server/ANWPROG/TIM/CPAS



Letsencrypt sends erroneous expiration notices
==============================================

I received yet another email from expiry@letsencrypt.org::

    Let's Encrypt certificate expiration notice

    Hello,

    Your certificate (or certificates) for the names listed below will
    expire in 9 days (on 01 Apr 16 19:39 +0000). Please make sure to
    renew your certificate before then, or visitors to your website
    will encounter errors.

    ...

    For any questions or support, please visit
    https://community.letsencrypt.org/. Unfortunately, we can't
    provide support by email.

    If you are receiving this email in error, unsubscribe at
    http://mandrillapp.com/track/unsub.php?...

    Regards,
    The Let's Encrypt Team

I started to receive these reminders about three months after my first
installation on that server.  After the first mail I ran
`letsencrypt-auto renew` successfully.  When I run it now, I get::

    $ letsencrypt-auto renew
    Updating letsencrypt and virtual environment dependencies...
    ...
    The following certs are not due for renewal yet:
      ... (a list of all certificates on that server)
    No renewals were attempted.


Maximum recursion depth exceeded while calling a Python object
==============================================================

While investigating for :ticket:`844` I tried to do a dump and a
restore in :ref:`welcht` in the hope of reproducing the problem.

I got another problem instead. When trying to reload the data, I had
an :message:`AttributeError: module object has no attribute
OverlapGroups` on this line of the :xfile:`restore.py` file ::

    if overlap_group: overlap_group = settings.SITE.modules.isip.OverlapGroups.get_by_value(overlap_group)

This was because the following line was missing in
:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.isip.models`::

  from .choicelists import *

So I had to do an upgrade in :ref:`welcht` before even investigating
more about :ticket:`844`.

TODO: Automatically run double dump test (:cmd:`fab ddt`) for all demo
projects.
