:date: 2016-04-06

========================
Wednesday, April 6, 2016
========================

Cannot see participants of course 039
=====================================

Alexa reported the problem that Lino did not show the content of the
EnrolmentsByCourse table for a given course. The server log disclosed
the reason::

  File "repositories/voga/lino_voga/projects/roger/lib/courses/models.py", line 102, in get_enrolment_info
    s += " " + self.section
  TypeError: coercing to Unicode: need string or buffer, Choice found

That is, there was one participant with a non-empty `section` field in
this course, and Lino did not yet manage this case correctly. Fixed.

This problem took only 20 minutes, including voice chat with Alexa,
code change, commit, release to their production site and explanation
email to Alexa.



Managing user permissions
=========================

I had a phone meeting with Gerd about managing user permissions. 
The existing system uses class-based "user roles" and is the best we can imagine.
We had two ideas for optimizing it: :ticket:`856` and :ticket:`857`.

:ticket:`856` is clear (no discussions) but will require some work and
is not vital.

For :ticket:`857` here an introduction. They face the problem that
even though they currently have only about a dozen of user profiles,
they sometimes have difficulties to figure out which one is needed for
a new user.

My idea is to solve this by providing the following table:

================================== ================ ============ ========== =========== ============= ============ ===========
 Profile                            OfficeOperator   OfficeUser   SepaUser   DebtsUser   LedgerStaff   Supervisor   SiteAdmin
---------------------------------- ---------------- ------------ ---------- ----------- ------------- ------------ -----------
 Anonym
 Begleiter im DSBE                                   X            X
 Begleiter im DSBE (Manager)        X                X            X
 Begleiter im DSBE (+Erstempfang)                    X            X
 Berater Erstempfang                                 X            X
 Empfangsschalter                   X                             X
 Empfangsschalter (+Erstempfang)    X                             X
 Schuldenberater                                     X            X          X
 Sozi                                                X            X
 Sozi (Manager)                     X                X            X
 Buchhalter                                          X            X
 Accountant (Manager)                                X            X                      X
 Supervisor                         X                             X                                    X
 Verwalter                          X                X            X          X           X                          X
================================== ================ ============ ========== =========== ============= ============ ===========

The real table should of course (1) have more columns (configurable as
a list of "key functionalities") and (2) be accessible via the web
interface.

The table has been generated using the following script:

.. literalinclude:: 0406.py


