:date: 2016-04-26

=======================
Tuesday, April 26, 2016
=======================

Miscellaneous
=============

The Welfare test suite needed some care after the changes of last
weeks. I created a sticky ticket :ticket:`881` for this kind of work.


I changed the `insert_layout` of `tickets.ui.Tickets`.

The `detail_layout` of a ticket is now overridden in
:mod:`lino_noi.projects.team.lib.tickets.models` (and no longer in
:mod:`lino_noi.lib.faculties`).  This is another example of why
:meth:`set_detail_layout <lino.core.actors.Actor.set_detail_layout>`
should maybe become deprecated (:ticket:`526`).

It seems that the general rule is: if you want your own detail_layout,
then you should write your own plugin.


I deployed everything to :ref:`lf`.


A new deployment strategy?
===========================

I am going to setup a new production site on `mylino.org`, and that
site should have its own virtual environment. The easiest way would be
to simply add a new environment as described in :ref:`dev.install`.

But a clone of the Lino repository takes 257 MB of disk space. Do we
really need to waste that much?

I surfed around and found documents like `Setting up a private,
team-wide PyPI repository <http://blog.xelnor.net/private-pypi/>`_,
but it seems to me that our own packages server would be overkill.

The easiest and most appropriate way seems to start using officially
released "stable" versions of Lino.

Here is a cheat sheet for installing Lino Noi::

    $ cd ~/virtualenvs
    $ virtualenv b
    New python executable in b/bin/python
    Installing setuptools, pip, wheel...done.
    $ cd b
    $ . bin/activate
    $ mkdir lino_cache
    $ mkdir lino_static
    $ mkdir repositories
    $ cd repositories
    $ git clone https://github.com/lino-framework/xl.git
    $ pip install -e xl/
    $ git clone https://github.com/lsaffre/noi.git
    $ pip install -e noi/



