:date: 2016-05-17

=====================
Tuesday, May 17, 2016
=====================

Code Camp in Vigala
===================

After reading an invitation to participate to the European CodeWeek
(`Üleeuroopaline programmeerimisnädal Code Week
<http://www.hitsa.ee/uritused/neljas-uleeuroopaline-programmeerimisnadal>`_
by HITSA, the *Foundation for ICT related education development in
Estonia*), I had problems to hold back my ideas, so I published them:
`Vigala Code Camps are coming up <https://www.saffre-rumma.net/vcc/>`_

And I also registered this to the `CodeWeek
<http://events.codeweek.eu/view/11737/vigala-coding-camp/>`_ calendar.

Lino Voga
=========

- Minor optimizations in :ref:`voga` for :ticket:`919`.
- Courses.quick_search_fields = "pupil__name"

Internal change about quick search fields
=========================================

I made a small change in :mod:`lino.core.dbtables`: Converted the
`add_quick_search_filter` function into a class method on the actor:

- :meth:`lino.core.dbtables.Table.add_quick_search_filter`
- :meth:`lino.core.tables.AbstractTable.add_quick_search_filter`

This requires also a changed call in :mod:`lino.modlib.extjs.views`
and :mod:`lino_extjs6.extjs.views`.


Community page and Teamwork Guide
=================================

I worked (for :ticket:`309`) on the :ref:`community` page and moved
the :ref:`lino.team` section from :ref:`noi` to :ref:`book`.

Error during `openpyxl_shutdown`
================================

The :ref:`welfare` test suite runs without failures, but I get a
traceback during atexit::

    Ran 51 tests in 197.162s

    OK
    INFO Done setup.py -q test (PID 9219)
    INFO:lino.core.kernel:Done setup.py -q test (PID 9219)
    Error in atexit._run_exitfuncs:
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "/usr/lib/python2.7/atexit.py", line 24, in _run_exitfuncs
        func(*targs, **kargs)
      File "/py27/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/openpyxl/writer/write_only.py", line 38, in _openpyxl_shutdown
        for path in ALL_TEMP_FILES:
    TypeError: 'NoneType' object is not iterable
    Error in sys.exitfunc:
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "/usr/lib/python2.7/atexit.py", line 24, in _run_exitfuncs
        func(*targs, **kargs)
      File "/py27/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/openpyxl/writer/write_only.py", line 38, in _openpyxl_shutdown
        for path in ALL_TEMP_FILES:
    TypeError: 'NoneType' object is not iterable

Actually this looks like a bug in openpyxl. Maybe we should report
it. Do we forget to close a temporary file? I avoided the traceback by
moving the ``from openpyxl`` statements into the
:meth:`ExcelRenderer.render` method.

More optimizations for :ref:`voga`
==================================

- Einschreibungen pro Kurs : Am Bildschirm steht jetzt wieder nur der
  Name des Teilnehmers

- Statusbericht : Statt der Kolonne "Einschreibungen" haben wir jetzt
  zwei Kolonnen "Angefragt" und "Bestätigt". Beide Kolonnen zeigen
  jetzt nur noch aktive Einschreibungen an. Habe auch die Reihenfolge
  dieser Kolonnen angepasst (scheint mir jetzt logischer)

- Ausdruck Anwesenheitsblatt : hier werden jetzt nur aktive Teilnehmer
  (in der angegebenen Periode) gedruckt

A change in `linoweb.js`
========================

I discovered that the new :attr:`keep_user_values
<lino.core.actions.Action.keep_user_values>` attribute of an action
*did* require a subtle change in :xfile:`linoweb.js`,
:func:`Lino.ActionFormPanel.add_field_values`: Until now this tested
whether the form is dirty, and if not, submitted only the original
field values which had been set by :meth:`set_status`. But now
:attr:`status_field_values` can be empty when
`Action.keep_user_values` is `True`. In that case we must submit the
current values even if the form is not dirty.  I don't remember why we
had this feature of not submitting unmodified field values, so I
remove this feature for now. So from today, action parameter windows
always submit *all* field values, even if the user did not change
anything.

I did the same modification in the :xfile:`linoweb.js` for
:mod:`lino_extjs6` as well.
