:date: 2016-05-20

====================
Friday, May 20, 2016
====================


Test suites and functional specs
================================

I invested some time trying to increase test coverage and
documentation.

Examples in the following functional specs:

- :ref:`book.specs.checkdata`
- :ref:`voga.specs.checkdata`
- :ref:`welfare.specs.checkdata`


Here is another way how to run the test suite::

  $ python -m unittest -f tests


Project management with Lino Noi
================================

During the last weeks I have been working a lot on :ref:`voga`. The
understandable reason for this is that they (:ref:`eiche`) left their
old software behind and started to use Lino for good.

But actually there are about half a dozen of other "big" projects
waiting.  Which of them will be next?  While thinking and talking
about this question with my customers, I realized that only a few
details are missing in :ref:`noi` in order to make it useful tool to
helop with this type of decisions. :ticket:`933`:

- Projects now have a `start_date` and an `end_date`.
- New table :class:`lino_noi.lib.tickets.ui.ActiveProjects`.

Before releasing these, I'd maybe also do :ticket:`831` (Add ticket
voting functionality).

Lino Noi as discussion forum
============================

Another topic is the "discussion forum" part of :ref:`noi`.  Until now
my vision was that :ref:`noi` does not try to *replace* email, that it
rather *integrates* it.  But I am maybe reconsidering this and opened
:ticket:`932` (in state *Talk*). I agree, there is a long way to go.
