:date: 2016-05-26

======================
Thursday, May 26, 2016
======================

I optimized the menu structure for :mod:`lino_xl.lib.topics`.

Entering bank statements
========================

Alexa is entering the first bank statements. This gave us a few ideas
for quick optimizations:

- I removed the error message :message:`Could not determine the
  general account` which was issued after setting the :attr:`partner
  <lino_xl.lib.finan.mixins.FinancialVoucherItem.partner>` of a
  :class:`FinancialVoucherItem
  <lino_xl.lib.finan.mixins.FinancialVoucherItem>`.

- New field :attr:`default_amount
  <lino_xl.lib.accounts.models.Account.default_amount>` per of an
  :class:`Account <lino_xl.lib.accounts.models.Account>`.

- The :attr:`date` of the items of a bank statement now defaults to
  the last entered date. 
  New mixins 
  :class:`DatedFinancialVoucher <lino_xl.lib.finan.mixins.DatedFinancialVoucher>`  and
  :class:`DatedFinancialVoucherItem <lino_xl.lib.finan.mixins.DatedFinancialVoucherItem>` 

- :meth:`lino.core.model.Model.quick_search_filter` is now a class
  method on the model. And :class:`lino.mixins.Referrable` now uses
  this to override the behaviour: when quick-searching in a table of
  referrables for a numeric search text, the user usually means the
  reference, not the primary key. For Alexa these are courses and
  accounts.

Less quick was the problem of the partners having more than one open
invoices.  Selecting such a partner into the `partner` field of a bank
statement item should theoretically cause the
:class:`SuggestionsByBankStatementItem
<lino_xl.lib.finan.models.SuggestionsByBankStatementItem>` table to
open, asking which invoice(s) to select. Unfortunately it is not
possible, or would at least quite tricky, to ask Lino that a grid cell
edit triggers an action which opens a new window. But I found a
workaround which seems satisfying: in that case, Lino now writes
"<num> suggestions" into the match field. And the user is then
supposed to click themselves on the "Suggestions" link of that line.

Checkins and release for Alexa. Some tests need adaption, but that's
for tomorrow.


