:date: 2016-05-31

=====================
Tuesday, May 31, 2016
=====================

Lino Voga
=========


I worked for :ticket:`953`: The `sums` argument passed to
:meth:`Actor.get_sum_text<lino.core.actors.Actor.get_sum_text>` (and
to :meth:`Widget.format_sum <lino.core.widgets.Widget.format_sum>`)
now is a `dict`, not a `list`.

This API change is used (for :ticket:`952`) in
:class:`MovementsByPartner
<lino_xl.lib.accounting.ui.MovementsByPartner>` where we now show the
balance (i.e. the difference between the sums of debit and credit)::

    @classmethod
    def get_sum_text(self, ar, sums):
        bal = sums['debit'] - sums['credit']
        return _("Balance {1} ({0} rows)").format(
            ar.get_total_count(), bal)

The same result would have been possible using the column index, but
then the method would break on subclasses with different
:attr:`column_names <lino.core.actors.Actor.column_names>`.

New attribute :attr:`sum_text_column
<lino.core.actors.Actor.sum_text_column>` because otherwise in
:class:`MovementsByPartner
<lino_xl.lib.accounting.ui.MovementsByPartner>` the text of the sums row
would be in the first column (which is a date) although the third
column (description) is better.



WidgetFactory
=============

Ticket :ticket:`951`: Hamza and I discovered that
:mod:`lino_extjs6.extjs6.elems` had actually lots of changes. Hamza
will now convert it to the new `WidgetFactory` system.

I discovered and fixed a first bug in the JavaScript code which had
slipped through the net of our test suite: a rich TextField was not
rendered correctly when `tinymce` was installed.

Translations
============

La plupart des textes du module :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.debts` sont
maintenant traduits en français.


'list' object has no attribute 'filter'
=======================================

It was not possible to select e.g. the type of a place. The server
then reported::

    AttributeError: 'list' object has no attribute 'filter'
    in request GET /choices/countries/Places/type?_dc=1464710351811&country=BE&query=
    TRACEBACK:
      ...
      File "/media/dell1tb/luc/work/lino/lino/core/dbtables.py", line 323, in add_quick_search_filter
        return qs.filter(qs.model.quick_search_filter(search_text))

This bug had been introduced a few weeks ago with the
:meth:`add_quick_search_filter
<lino.core.tables.AbstractTable.add_quick_search_filter>` method and
had gone undiscovered since then.

Now I wrote a new functional spec about the
:ref:`book.specs.countries` module which covers this.

I also wrote a new :mod:`lino.api.doctest` utility function
:func:`show_choices <lino.api.doctest.show_choices>`.
