:date: 2016-06-05

====================
Sunday, June 5, 2016
====================

ParamsLayout on tickets.Tickets has no params_store
===================================================

Hamza and I continue to receive, sporadically, series of error
messages like the following::

    Exception at /tickets/Ticket/39

    20160329 params_layout ParamsLayout on tickets.Tickets has no params_store in <class 'lino_noi.lib.tickets.ui.Tickets'>
    
    ...

I opened :ticket:`960` for this. It seems that the problem comes only
when the server did not yet serve any *list* view. When the problem is
"active", any public request for the **detail** of a ticket
(e.g. http://bugs.lino-framework.org/tickets/Ticket/960) causes the
internal server error. To "deactivate" the problem, it is enough to do
a request to the index page (http://bugs.lino-framework.org). 
    
Which means that in some situations Lino somehow "forgets" to set that
`params_store` at startup.

The problem is reproduceable as follows::

    $ cd lino_noi/projects/bs3
    $ python manage.py runserver

Then point your browser to some detail view (e.g.
http://127.0.0.1:8000/tickets/Ticket/13) *without* previously
requesting the index view http://127.0.0.1:8000.

I added a (hidden) test case in :ref:`noi.specs.bs3` which reproduces
the problem.

I fixed the problem by adding, :mod:`lino.core.requests`, an otherwise
useless call to :meth:`get_layout_handle
<lino.core.layouts.BaseLayout.get_layout_handle>`::

    # call get_layout_handle to make sure that
    # params_store has been created:
    self.actor.params_layout.get_layout_handle(
        self.renderer.plugin)


Yearly reports for ESF
======================

Continued to work on :ticket:`584`.  

The initial observation was that we cannot manually create a summary
in :class:`SummariesByClient
<lino_welfare.modlib.fse.models.SummariesByClient>`.

- Converted from `wkhtmltopdf` to `weasyprint`
- Updated :ref:`welfare.specs.esf`
- New exception :class:`lino.core.exceptions.UnresolvedChoice`
- The icon for :class:`UpdateSummariesByMaster
  <lino.modlib.summaries.mixins.UpdateSummariesByMaster>` now is a
  lightning, not a bell.
- :attr:`Summaries.allow_create
  <lino_welfare.modlib.fse.models.Summaries.allow_create>` is now
  False.
- :class:`SummariesByClient
  <lino_welfare.modlib.fse.models.SummariesByClient>` now has
  :attr:`slave_grid_summary` "html".
- Adapted some test suites


TODO:
- Don't show a sum for the years of a summary
- Display a help text for each column


