:date: 2016-06-10

=====================
Friday, June 10, 2016
=====================

I deployed yesterday's version to :ref:`eiche`.
:class:`InvoicesByJournal
<lino_xl.lib.trading.InvoicesByJournal>` did not yet show the
new :attr:`cleared <lino_xl.lib.ledger.PartnerVouchers.cleared>`
parameter field.

I received error messages and did first diagnosis about :ticket:`971`.
The bug is somewhere in :func:`lino.core.dbtables.add_gridfilters`.
Seems not urgent.

I worked on :ticket:`969`.

- I optimized the workflow buttons of calendar events in :ref:`voga`:
  they don't use icons any more, just `unicode symbols
  <https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Unicode/List_of_useful_symbols>`_.

- :meth:`lino.core.model.Model.workflow_buttons` now displays the
  :attr:`button_text <lino.core.workflows.State.button_text>` of the
  state if it is defined.

- I removed the "take" action (in :ref:`voga`) because they don't want
  it.

- The :class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.mixins.MoveEntryNext` action is now in
  the workflow buttons and no longer in the toolbar. And it has the
  button_text '▽'.

- The `UpdateEvents` and `UpdateGuests` actions both had a "lightning"
  icon. Now the former has '⚡' and the latter '☷' (both using unicode
  characters)

- The `UpdateEvents` action is now also available in the
  EventsByController table.

- Similar optimizations for GuestStates. I also defined transitions
  for the guest states (until now it was not possible to change the
  state of a participation in :ref:`voga`).

- The cancelled state of an event is now ignored by `UpdateEvents`.

The above brought a general optimization for Lino:

- I renamed the :attr:`symbol` of a workflow state to
  :attr:`button_text <lino.core.workflows.State.button_text>`.

  And the same attribute can now be defined on an action.

  The difference between the :attr:`button_text
  <lino.core.actions.Action.button_text>` and the :attr:`label
  <lino.core.actions.Action.label>` of an action or state is rather
  subtle. For example when logging something about an action, then the
  label and not the button_text is used.


And a change for :ref:`welfare` users as well:

- Der Workflow von Terminen und Anwesenheiten wird jetzt nicht mehr
  mit Icons sondern mit Unicode-Sonderzeichen gemacht.

NB: some tests are still failing, e.g. in :ref:`book`.
