:date: 2016-06-11

=======================
Saturday, June 11, 2016
=======================

Two subtle optimizations of yesterday's changes in
:meth:`lino.core.model.Model.workflow_buttons` and
:meth:`lino.core.workflows.State.add_transition`.

I added a section about "Workflow" in the specs for
:ref:`voga.tested.cal`.

Alexa and I had new ideas for handling the situation of dropped-out
events:

- The MoveEntryNext action now also calls UpdateEvents.

- Lino now supports a new way of dropping out an automatic event:
  instead of moving it to the next available date, the user can clear
  its number (auto_type) in order to detach it from the automatically
  generated events. UpdateEvents will then generate a new event with
  the missing number.


Nullable integer fields
=======================

Note about NULL values in an number field.  If you enter a "0", then
the value in the database will be 0.  If you enter an empty string,
then the value will be NULL.

But until now the `Ext.form.NumberField` did not render a NULL as
blank but as a "0". So you didn't see the difference.

I discovered the `useNull` option of `Ext.data.Field
<http://docs.sencha.com/extjs/3.4.0/#!/api/Ext.data.Field>`_:

    useNull : Boolean
    (Optional) Use when converting received data into a Number type (either int or float). If the value cannot be parsed, null will be used if useNull is true, otherwise the value will be 0. Defaults to false

    Defaults to: false

I removed `grid_column_template` (in :mod:`lino.modlib.extjs.elems`)
and the definition of `Lino.NullNumberColumn` (in :xfile:`linoweb.js`)
because they were useless.

(Hamza, please do these changes also in :mod:`lino_extjs6`. You can
test them e.g. in :ref:`voga`::

  $ cd lino_voga.projects.voga2
  $ runserver
  
Then using the web interface log in as Robin, click on e.g. "Activity
#3" in the main screen, select the Events tab, then open the Events
panel in its own window. The column "No." is a nullable integer
field. F2, DEL, ENTER on such a cell should leave it *empty* (while
until yesterday Lino would show a "0").


Einzelne Termine ausfallen lassen
=================================

Der Kursleiter teilt mit, dass sein Kurs an zwei Daten ausfällt:
Stunde 27, weil er verhindert ist und Stunde 29, weil er verreist. Wie
erfasse ich das? Es gibt zwei Möglichkeiten:

- Klicke auf :guilabel:`[▽]` im Arbeitsablauf von Stunde 27.

  Dadurch wird das Datum dieses Termins um eine Woche verschoben, und
  das Datum aller folgenden Termine wird neu berechnet.  Der
  verschobene Termin steht jetzt im Status :guilabel:`[☐]`, weil sein
  Datum manuell bearbeitet wurde.

- Drücke :kbd:`F2` im Feld :guilabel:`Nr.`, dann :kbd:`DELETE` und
  :kbd:`ENTER`. Klicke im Arbeitsablauf auf :guilabel:`[☉]` um diese
  Stunde als storniert zu markieren. Drücke :kbd:`F2` im Feld
  `Kurzbeschreibung` und tippe "Fällt aus weil Leiter verhindert ist".

  Dann klicke auf :guilabel:`⚡` um die Termine zu aktualisieren.

  Wenn ein Termin keine Nummer hat, ist er *losgelöst* aus der Serie
  der automatisch generierten Termine und wird nicht mehr durch den
  Kurs kontrolliert. Er bleibt dennoch mit seinem Kurs *verknüpft*.

