:date: 2016-06-12

=====================
Sunday, June 12, 2016
=====================

Replace OptionParser by ArgumentParser
======================================

Hamza worked on :ticket:`967`: the :manage:`initdb` command no longer
causes a `RemovedInDjango110Warning` :message:`OptionParser usage for
:term:`django-admin command`s is deprecated, use ArgumentParser instead`.

TODO: Hamza, can you please make the same conversion also for the
following other commands:

- :cmd:`pm dump2py`
- :manage:`show`
- :manage:`checkdata`
- :manage:`garble_persons`
- :manage:`reregister`


I noticed that :manage:`garble_persons` was missing in :ref:`cosi` and
:ref:`welfare` (and fixed that problem).

Set member_until after payment
==============================

About :ticket:`975`.  The :attr:`member_until
<lino_voga.projects.roger.lib.courses.models.Pupil.member_until>`
field on each pupil should get updated automatically when a payment of
a membership is being registered.

New signal :data:`lino_xl.lib.ledger.utils.on_ledger_movement`.  The
first handler for this signal is in
:mod:`lino_voga.projects.roger.lib.courses.models` and simply runs the
:class:`courses.MemberChecker
<lino_voga.projects.roger.lib.courses.models.MemberChecker>`.

:class:`lino.modlib.checkdata.choicelists.Checker` now has a `self`
attribute and refuses duplicate activations.


Cannot log into Rose after apt-get upgrade
==========================================

After a routine upgrade of the Ubuntu 14.04 LTS on :ref:`rose`, we
were not able to get beyond the login screen. You type your password
in the GDM, it validates, but instead of getting into your Desktop,
after a while, the GDM invites you again to enter your password.

dmesgsaid::

  [ 2598.360168] <3>[fglrx:firegl_init_device_list] *ERROR* No supported display adapters were found

Which lead me to this thread:

  http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2203858

I tried to move the :file:`~/.config` directory
I tried this::

    $ sudo aptitude remove fglrx
    ...
    The following packages will be REMOVED:
      fglrx fglrx-amdcccle{a} 
    0 packages upgraded, 0 newly installed, 2 to remove and 19 not upgraded.
    Need to get 0 B of archives. After unpacking 119 MB will be freed.
    Do you want to continue? [Y/n/?] 
    (Reading database ... 408518 files and directories currently installed.)
    Removing fglrx-amdcccle (2:15.201-0ubuntu0.14.04.1) ...
    Removing fglrx (2:15.201-0ubuntu0.14.04.1) ...
    update-alternatives: using /usr/lib/pxpress/ld.so.conf to provide /etc/ld.so.conf.d/i386-linux-gnu_GL.conf (i386-linux-gnu_gl_conf) in auto mode
    update-alternatives: warning: skip creation of /usr/share/applications/ubuntu-amdcccle.desktop because associated file /usr/share/fglrx/amdcccle.desktop (of link group i386-linux-gnu_gl_conf) doesn't exist
    update-alternatives: warning: skip creation of /usr/share/applications/ubuntu-amdccclesu.desktop because associated file /usr/share/fglrx/amdccclesu.desktop (of link group i386-linux-gnu_gl_conf) doesn't exist
    update-alternatives: warning: not replacing /usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/xorg/extra-modules with a link
    update-alternatives: using /usr/lib/pxpress/alt_ld.so.conf to provide /etc/ld.so.conf.d/x86_64-linux-gnu_GL.conf (x86_64-linux-gnu_gl_conf) in auto mode
    update-alternatives: using /usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/mesa/ld.so.conf to provide /etc/ld.so.conf.d/i386-linux-gnu_GL.conf (i386-linux-gnu_gl_conf) in auto mode
    update-alternatives: warning: not replacing /usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/xorg/extra-modules with a link
    Processing triggers for bamfdaemon (0.5.1+14.04.20140409-0ubuntu1) ...
    Rebuilding /usr/share/applications/bamf-2.index...
    Processing triggers for libc-bin (2.19-0ubuntu6.9) ...


Behavior-driven development
===========================

I read about `BDD
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Behavior-driven_development>`_ and had
a look into the `tutorial
<http://pythonhosted.org/behave/tutorial.html>`_ of the `behave
<http://pythonhosted.org/behave/>`_ package.  My first impression:
Looks like a great tool, but for the moment I don't see any useful
application in some Lino project.



Numbers in a grid
=================

Oops, after yesterday's changes (Nullable integer fields) all numbers
in a grid were left aligned. Fixed.  Hamza, please adapt
:mod:`lino_extjs6.extjs6.elems` once more (by adding `align='right'`
in the :meth:`get_column_options` of :clasS:`NumberFieldElement`::

    def get_column_options(self, **kw):
        ...
        kw.update(align='right')



Reihenfolge und Schnellsuche Kontoauszüge
=========================================

Alexa now has vouchers in two fiscal years, which revealed some
problems with ordering them and searching for them.

- VouchersByJournal are now ordered by 'accounting_period', 'number'

- New virtual field
  :attr:`lino_xl.lib.ledger.models.Voucher.number_with_year`

- :class:`lino_xl.lib.ledger.models.Voucher` now has its own
  customized :meth:`quick_search_filter
  <lino_xl.lib.ledger.models.Voucher.quick_search_filter>` method.

- New model attribute :attr:`quick_search_fields_digit
  <lino.core.model.Model.quick_search_fields_digit>`
