:date: 2016-06-19

=====================
Sunday, June 19, 2016
=====================

I deployed the latest version to :ref:`eiche`. A quick spontaneous
change which they will probably like: The detail_layout of a sales
invoice in :ref:`voga` now shows :attr:`balance_before
<lino_xl.lib.sales.models.VatProductInvoice.balance_before>` and
:attr:`balance_to_pay
<lino_xl.lib.sales.models.VatProductInvoice.balance_to_pay>` instead
of total_excl and total_vat.  That's because our first target group
are the other educational organisations in Eastern Belgium, none of
whom needs to care about VAT.

#980 (Export vers Excel ne fontionne pas)
=========================================

The :ref:`cpaschatelet` server reported two errors related to
:mod:`lino.modlib.export_excel` and caused by :ticket:`913`:

- "ImportError: No module named openpyxl" was because they didn't have
  `openpyxl` installed.  I added `openpyxl` to `install_requires` and
  removed `xlwt` and `xlrd` which were still being declared there
  though they are no longer used.

- Even with `openpyxl` installed, we had a `UnicodeEncodeError:
  'ascii' codec can't encode character u'\xc9' in position 0: ordinal
  not in range(128)` whenever some column header contained non-ascii
  characters.

  This case was not covered by :ref:`lino.specs.export_excel`.  I
  added a section which repeats the request for French user "Romain".
  I had to add `fr` to the :attr:`languages
  <lino.core.site.Site.languages>` of
  :mod:`lino_book.projects.min1.settings.demo`.
  
  An unrelated test, :ref:`lino.specs.invalid_requests` was in this
  document until now, now it is in its own document.

- :mod:`lino.api.doctest` now does ``from builtins import str``.



ImportError: cannot import name ctask
=====================================

:ref:`james` reported a problem (and its solution) which occured when
using the new pyinvoke version 0.13 (`released 10 days ago
<http://www.pyinvoke.org/changelog.html>`_). I adapted
:mod:`atelier.invlib` so that it now works with both versions.

I registered this problem as :ticket:`981`. It was also the reason for
build failures on Travis which had started last week and which I just
didn't yet take time to look at since then.

Congratulations to :ref:`james` for his first code contribution.


Minor optimizations in Lino Noi
===============================

I removed the boolean fields :attr:`closed`, :attr:`standby` and
:attr:`feedback` of a ticket from the user interface. This field is
obsolete.


Convert fab release to inv release
==================================

About the :func:`abort` function:
https://github.com/pyinvoke/invoke/issues/269


Released Lino 1.7.2
===================

The main reason for this release was that I wanted to test the
:cmd:`inv release` command. But anyway it was time for the next
release.  And indeed, version 1.7.1 failed (has no files), that's why
I did a second attempt.
