:date: 2016-07-06

=======================
Wednesday, July 6, 2016
=======================

Today I had a few offline working hours.

I renamed :mod:`lino.modlib.notifier` to :mod:`lino.modlib.notify`.

I repaired all test suites after the changes of the last days.

I did a job which had been waiting impatiently (at least in my head):
move :mod:`lino.modlib.contacts` :mod:`lino_xl.lib.contacts`. Ticket
:ticket:`838`.

The following plugins moved together with :mod:`lino_xl.lib.contacts`:

- :mod:`lino_xl.lib.stabel`
- :mod:`lino_xl.lib.countries`
- :mod:`lino_xl.lib.polls`
- :mod:`lino_xl.lib.concepts`
- :mod:`lino_xl.lib.eid_jslib`
- :mod:`lino_xl.lib.events`

Notes:

- :mod:`lino.modlib.office` remains in lino because uploads depends on
  it. But office roles no longer can include the contacts roles. Which
  means that I must adapt the roles in welfare.

- For :mod:`lino.modlib.languages` I was tempted to also move it
  because it is not a "system" plugin. But it remains in lino because
  is rather a general feature than a part of the extension library.
  For example it is used by :ref:`logos` which would not be glad if we
  oblige them obliged to depend on XL just because of the languages
  plugin.


End-users and reSTructuredText markup
=====================================

Ticket :ticket:`1026`. Alexa wrote: "schau dir doch mal die Rechnung
von Frau X an.  Ich habe hier Veränderungen dran gemacht und jetzt
kann ich nicht mehr in die Druckansicht."

To be more precise, she received the follwing error message:

    EvaluationError: Error while evaluating the expression
    "table(obj.get_print_items(ar))" defined in the "from" part of a
    statement. NotImplementedError: inside
    
The server log was a bit better::
    
    NotImplementedError: <dl> inside <text:p>
        
(The tags had been interpreted and not rendered. Somewhere is an
escape missing).
        
The actual problem was that she had in her description the following
text::

    Termine:
     25.01.16, 01.02.16, 15.02.16, 22.02.16, 29.02.16, 07.03.16, 14.03.16, 21.03.16
    
The second line starts with a space.  And because their
descriptions are interpreted as reSTructuredText markup, this is
converted to HTML as a `definition list
<http://www.w3schools.com/tags/tag_dl.asp>`__.

It is of course difficult to explain to normal humans the subtleties
of reSTructuredText markup...  Okay we might switch them to HTML...
OTOH I want to avoid a HTML editor field for invoice items at least in
their application, because most of the time the content is very
simple...  Needs meditation.
