:date: 2016-07-11

=====================
Monday, July 11, 2016
=====================

Lino under Python 3
===================

I found a solution for :ticket:`1036`.  I don't understand why, but
the problem disappeared when I added `universal_newlines=True
<https://docs.python.org/3/library/subprocess.html#subprocess.Popen>`__
to my :func:`Popen` calls.

As a result, :mod:`atelier` now passes again under both Python
versions on `Travis CI
<https://travis-ci.org/lsaffre/atelier/builds/143800632>`__.

While I was there, I cleaned up the failures of the Lino test suite
under Python 3.  

I still don't trust in the :func:`atelier.utils.dict_py2` function, I
prefer to use :func:`json.dumps`.  Anyway both methods failed on
`dict`\ s with more than one item. I converted snippets like this::

    >>> dict_py2(expr)
    {'name_de': 'Hallo', 'name': 'Hello'}

to::

    >>> expr == {'name_de': 'Hallo', 'name': 'Hello'}
    True

I also had problems with snippets like this:

    >>> import json
    >>> print(json.dumps(list(streets_of_eupen())[:5]))
    ["Aachener Stra\u00dfe", "Akazienweg", "Alter Malmedyer Weg", "Am Bahndamm", "Am Berg"]

My lesson here was that :func:`json.dumps` cannot be used when the
output contains non-ASCII characters...

Next result: also the :ref:`lino` Lino Core :mod:`lino` now passes
again under both Python versions on `Travis CI
<https://travis-ci.org/lsaffre/lino/builds/143829258>`__.


Protecting against spam
=======================

:ref:`andi` explained me why my IP address had been regarded as a
spammer. The postfix I am running there did no SPAM control at all.
Mails arriving at adresses like luc@lino-framework.org or
info@lino-framework.org were happily forwarded to smtp.elisa.net Now
that Lino was getting more known, there is more spam arriving at these
adresses.  This never disturbed me because I use Thunderbird which has
a good spam filter.

The problem is that Elisa started to increase their spam
controls. Which actually is not a problem but a good thing. So they
accused me of polluting the Internet with Spam, they didn't know that
I was polluting only my own inbox.

I now read `this
<http://en.linuxreviews.org/HOWTO_Stop_spam_using_Postfix>`__ and
other sources, and configured my Postfix to do at least the basic
hygiene.
