:date: 2016-07-12

======================
Tuesday, July 12, 2016
======================


Configuring logging
===================


I fixed :ticket:`709`.  This problem was indeed caused by Django's
changed handling of the :setting:`LOGGING` and
:setting:`LOGGER_CONFIG` settings.  Lino no longer modifies these
settings, and the :mod:`lino.utils.log` module is no longer used.
Lino now "extends" Django's way of configuring logging as explained in
the new method :meth:`setup_logging
<lino.core.site.Site.setup_logging>`.  We also have a new site
attribute :attr:`logger_filename
<lino.core.site.Site.logger_filename>`.


Lino Care continued
===================

I had a voice meeting with :ref:`annalisa` which produced a nice list
of new ideas for :ref:`care`. I summarize them in German.

- Kompetenzen automatisch löschen, wenn Benutzer gelöscht wird.

- Menüstruktur: "Fähigkeiten (alle)" und "Fähigkeiten (hierarchisch)"
  nebeneinander und im Hauptmenü unter einem Punkt "Fähigkeiten".

- Fähigkeiten: Referenz raus
- Es fehlen noch viele Übersetzungen
- Im Detail eines Produkts die Kompetenzen anzeigen.
- "Produkte" umbenennen nach "Optionen"
- "Produkte" ins Menü "Konfigurierung"
- Kontakte : komplett raus
- users.User : inherit Adressable
- "Stars" übersetzen nach "Favoriten" bzw. "beobachtete Tickets".
- Uploads, Outbox und Excerpts raus


:ref:`care` is the first application application that uses
:mod:`lino_xl` but does *not* use :mod:`lino_xl.lib.contacts`

Side effects:

- It was not possible to remove an automatically installed plugin
  using :meth:`get_plugin_modifiers`.

- Moved the `hide_region` attribute from :mod:`lino_xl.lib.contacts`
  :mod:`lino_xl.lib.countries`

- You can now manually set :attr:`lino.core.actors.Actor.abstract` to
  `True` when you want to hide a whole table. Usage example is
  :class:`lino_noi.lib.tickets.ui.MyKnownProblems` which makes no
  sense without :mod:`contacts` installed. So I can simply say::

    class MyKnownProblems(Tickets):
        ...
        abstract = not dd.is_installed('contacts')

Two bugfixes which I also applied to :mod:`lino_extjs6.extjs6.elems`:

- :class:`RichTextField` lost is verbose_name when tinymce was
  installed. That's fixed by the new line
  ``kw.update(label=field.verbose_name)`` in
  :class:`lino.modlib.extjs.elems.TextFieldElement`
  and
  :class:`lino_extjs6.extjs6.elems.TextFieldElement`

- :meth:`lino.modlib.extjs.elems.Panel.wrap_formlayout_elements` now
  does not add a Wrapper around hidden elements. That was the reason
  for :ticket:`1039` (which had been reported in my head only).


I checked in because my manuel test via web interface seemed
satisfying. TODO: adapt test suites.


Release on :ref:`oikos`
========================

I did a release on :ref:`oikos`. And for their site I thought that it
would be a good idea to use the officially released versions of
:ref:`lino`, :ref:`xl`.

I also thought that it would be a good idea to unite the version
numbering of :ref:`lino`, :ref:`xl` and :ref:`book`. So I released
version 1.7.3. of that our Trio.

And then I had a blocking bug in :ref:`xl` which had slipped through
the test suite: :message:`TypeError: notify() takes at most 4
arguments (5 given)`. So I had to do a bugfix release 1.7.4 at least
for :ref:`xl`.  Now it would be a bit strange to release version 1.7.4
of the other two (:ref:`lino` and :ref:`book`) without any code
change, just to have the version numbers synchronized.

