:date: 2016-07-13

========================
Wednesday, July 13, 2016
========================

First use of Supervisor
=======================

I installed :manage:`linod` on :ref:`oikos`.

First I installed `Supervisor <http://www.supervisord.org>`__ using::

  $ sudo apt-get install supervisor

and created a file :file:`/etc/supervisor/conf.d/linod.conf` with this
content::

    [program:linod]
    command=source /path/to/prj/env/bin/activate ; python /path/to/prj/manage.py linod
    username = www-data

This failed because the ``command`` must be a *command* and not a
shell feature. So this one is better::

    [program:linod]
    command=/path/to/prj/linod.sh
    username = www-data

And then the linod.sh script contains::

    set -e  # exit on error
    cd /path/to/prj
    . env/bin/activate
    python manage.py linod


Of course also::

  $ pip install schedule


What I learned: Running django-admin commands as a daemon using
supervisor is straightforward and a pleasure.


Source distributions and data files
===================================

But then. Oops::

  jinja2.exceptions.TemplateNotFound: notify/body.eml

This was because the :xfile:`notify/body.eml` was not included with
the source distribution on PyPI.  So here is the next Lino release,
version 1.7.4.

Which didn't work either.  Yes, indeed, the body.eml file is still
missing. Before doing my next public release, I ran the following
command many times in order to create a local tar.gz file which I can
inspect::

  $ python setup.py sdist

Finally I found `here
<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/7522250/how-to-include-package-data-with-setuptools-distribute>`__
the solution which is to remove the following line from my
:xfile:`setup.py` file::

  include_package_data=True

But now we have another problem::

  TemplateNotFound: linoweb.js

The :xfile:`linoweb.js` has been included previously. I assume that it
is missing now because I removed the `include_package_data=True`.

Okay, I give up for this time. I reconfigured their site to use git
clones instead of pip wheels. Lino is not yet usable when installed
using ``pip install lino``.


Adapting :ref:`welfare` to the new notification framework
=========================================================

:ticket:`559` is not yet completely done: pcsw.Client must become
observable.


Voice session with Mathieu and Aurélie
======================================

We talked about a series of tickets, resulting in a subtle todo list
for me.

- :class:`lino_welfare.modlib.integ.choicelists.ContractEvents`:
  renamed 'signed' to 'issued', added new item 'decided'. This
  reflects the internal field names :attr:`date_issued
  <lino_welfare.modlib.isip.mixins.ContractBase.date_issued>` and
  :attr:`date_decided
  <lino_welfare.modlib.isip.mixins.ContractBase.date_decided>` of a
  contract.

- :ticket:`1004` (Filtrage Bénéficiaires): our first plan was "quand
  :attr:`lino_welfare.modlib.integ.models.Clients.coached_by` n'est pas
  vide, ne prendre que les primaires", but actually we must just default
  :attr:`lino_welfare.modlib.integ.models.Clients.only_primary` to True.

- :ticket:`1007` (Fichiers téléchargés) : La colonne "Description" est
  maintenant cliquable. Quand on y clique, il ouvre le document
  téléchargé.

  :class:`lino_welfare.modlib.uploads.models.UploadsByClient` now uses
  the new virtual field
  :attr:`lino.modlib.uploads.models.Upload.description_link`

- :ticket:`699` : Ateliers actifs pourtant pas dans la liste des
  orientations possibles. Code change:
  :meth:`Enrolment.course_choices` no longer filters by course_area.

  Todo Mais : pg Atelier Activons-nous vient-il dans panneau du
  dessus?

  :ticket:`699` : Explication: quand on insère une inscription en
  faisant clic droit sur une inscription existante (pour ouvrir le
  menu contexte où l'on peut sélectionner "Créer"), alors il prend
  le `course_area` de celle-ci, indépendamment du panneau utilisé.

  Code changes:

  - :attr:`lino_xl.lib.courses.models.Line.course_area` can no
    longer be blank and has ActivityLayouts.default as default value.

  - :meth:`Enrolment.full_clean` now always forces the course_area of
    the enrolment to be that of the course line.

  - detail_layout of a :class:`lino_xl.lib.courses.ui.Lines` now
    shows the `course_area` field

  - In
    :mod:`lino_welfare.chatelet.lib.courses.models`,
    removed ActivityLayouts.integ, renamed
    ActivityLayouts.basic to ActivityLayouts.default
