:date: 2016-07-15

=====================
Friday, July 15, 2016
=====================

Release on :ref:`lf`
====================

I commited my work of the last days (although they are not 100%, and
the :ref:`welfare` test suite is currently broken).

I did a release to :ref:`lf`, mainly because I am receiving a daily
error message caused by an obsolete project on that
server. Theoretically I must just remove that obsolote project, but
the error message is not optimal, some parts of the logs are
unclear. Before repairing anything, I'd like to see whether the error
report is better with the new logger configuration.

I also removed my manual installation of a development supervisor on
:ref:`lf` and installed the stable debian version. That's a rather old
version, but it works for me and has the advantage of running out of
the box. As a result, our own :manage:`linod` now finally is running,
and notification mails are being sent out.

As a side effect, before the release, I did two quick ideas in
:ref:`noi`:

- New ticket state "Ready". This is for when a ticket is theoretically
  fixed and is just waiting to be released so that the reporter can
  verify and confirm that the ticket is done.

- The ▶ and ◉ actions are now also displayed in the workflow buttons
  of a ticket.



Lino failing on travis
======================

Failure on travis::

    $ python --version
    Python 2.7.9
    $ pip --version
    pip 6.0.7 from /home/travis/virtualenv/python2.7.9/lib/python2.7/site-packages (python 2.7)
    8.83s$ pip install .
    Processing /home/travis/build/lsaffre/lino
    ...
    Collecting html5lib (from lino==1.7.5)
      Downloading html5lib-0.999999999.tar.gz (245kB)
        100% |################################| 245kB 2.3MB/s 
        html5lib requires setuptools version 18.5 or above; please upgrade before installing (you have 12.0.5)

I try to add "pip install -U pip" to Lino's :xfile:`.travis.yml`.
Or rather "pip install -U setuptools"? 
Yes, that `fixed 
<https://travis-ci.org/lsaffre/lino/builds/144914092>`__ the problem.

On `drone <https://drone.io/github.com/lsaffre/lino/424>`_ it is the
same.


Course areas
============

I continued with :ticket:`699`.  I realized that :ticket:`1013` is
closely related to this, so I decided to work on this first.  These
tickets represent actually a whole series of problems and changes
related to the concept of course areas.

The `Enrolment.course_area` is now `editable=False`. This field is
necessary because I don't see any other way of doing it:

- In :ref:`cpaschatelet` they want to differentiate BasicEnrolmentsByClient
  and JobsEnrolmentsByClient. There is no difference in database
  structure, they just need to spread their courses over two different
  panels of the ClientDetail.

- In :ref:`voga` until now they didn't yet express such a need, but
  course areas seem a perfect solution for solving their ticket
  :ticket:`1013`.


Here is our family of courses plugins:

- :mod:`lino_xl.lib.courses`
- :mod:`lino_welfare.chatelet.lib.courses`
- :mod:`lino_voga.lib.courses` adds e.g. invoiceable
- :mod:`lino_voga.projects.roger.lib.courses` adds some specific
  fields for managing the member fields.

Note that :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.courses` ("external courses") is
not related at all.

I moved the :class:`PrintPresenceSheet
<lino_voga.lib.courses.models.PrintPresenceSheet>` action from
:mod:`lino_voga.projects.roger.lib.courses` to
:mod:`lino_voga.lib.courses` because this is general to :ref:`voga`,
not just at :ref:`eiche`).

I fixed a typo bug in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.courses.ui`.

Lino Voga now uses CourseAreas for differentiating between "Courses",
"Hikes" and "Journeys".


Lino Welfare now at Joinup
==========================

I registered :ref:`welfare` at the Joinup catalogue of
interoperability solutions for public administrations:

https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/software/lino_welfare/description

(Note that it has just been submitted and requires the validation from
site moderator before it will be visible on the Joinup site).

Joinup is a collaborative platform for e-Government professionals who
want to share their experience with each others. Created by the
European Commission and funded by the European Union.

I also plan to participate in the `Sharing and Reuse Awards Contest
<https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/sharingandreuse/og_page/awards-contest>`__.


Atelier documentation
=====================

I fiddled and optimized a bit in the :mod:`atelier` documentation.  I
found it disturbing to have two configuration files per project
(:xfile:`tasks.py` and :file:`invoke.yaml`). For the :ref:`atelier`
and :ref:`book` project I now merged them. I added a ``**kwargs`` to
the :func:`setup_from_tasks <atelier.tasks.setup_from_tasks>` function
to make the :xfile:`tasks.py` more useable.  To be continued...


