:date: 2016-07-17

=====================
Sunday, July 17, 2016
=====================

Release in :ref:`welcht`.



About the attack in Nice
========================

I read about the attack in Nice:


- `Vatican’s Declaration on Tragedy in Nice
  <https://zenit.org/articles/vaticans-declaration-on-tragedy-in-nice/>`__

- `Un SMS évoquant des "armes", deux autres interpellations, l'enquête
  sur l'attentat de Nice avance
  <http://www.linternaute.com/actualite/depeche/afp/17/1626050/un_sms_evoquant_des_armes_deux_autres_interpellations_l_enquete_sur_l_attentat_de_nice_avance.shtml>`__

I especially liked the Wikipedia article about `Mohamed Lahouaiej
Bouhlel <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mohamed_Lahouaiej_Bouhlel>`__
which says that "Two days after the attack, some reports stated that
Bouhlel was more likely motivated by a desire to commit suicide than
Islamist ideology. Even though ISIL claimed responsibility for the
attack and called Bouhlel as "soldier of Islam", investigators stated
that the attack may have been “a suicide case who decided to make his
suicide look like an Islamist attack".[`9
<http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2016/07/17/nice-terror-attack-police-vans-blocking-promenade-withdrawn-hour1/>`__].

Once more I am glad that :ref:`hamza` is my assistant. Without him I
might be tempted to believe that Islam is a culture of hatred. Most
people know that not faith but fundamentalism is the source of
terrorism, but it is a sad fact that organizations which call
themselves islamic and which cultivate hatred and fear are getting too
much attention these days.  These organizations (and not religions)
are a disease of humanity.  I call upon all people of good will to do
their best in order to redeem us from this disease. I also don't know
*how* to get there, but here are some impulses:

- You have heard that it was said, "Love your neighbor and hate your
  enemy." But I tell you, love your enemies and pray for those who
  persecute you, that you may be sons of your Father in heaven. He
  causes His sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on
  the righteous and the unrighteous (Matthew 5:43-45)

- And good and evil deeds are not alike. Repel evil with good. And he
  who is your enemy will become your dearest friend. (Qurʾān 41:33-34)

- It may be that Allah will grant love (and friendship) between you
  and those whom you (now) hold as enemies. For Allah has power (over
  all things); And Allah is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful. (Qurʾān
  60:7)

