:date: 2016-07-18

=====================
Monday, July 18, 2016
=====================

Notifications versus system notes
=================================

This weekend I meditated about the following tickets:

- :ticket:`559` (Notification framework) itself is done. I like it
  very much. Needs documentation.

- :ticket:`1017` (Don't send email directly, but create a
  notification) is done for :ref:`noi` but not for :ref:`welfare`
  because there we are still using a pre-#559 solution.

- :ticket:`930` (Send notification via email when a guest checks in)
  is sleeping because (at least in :ref:`cpaseupen`) they prefer
  :ticket:`923` (Display live notifications even when the browser is
  minimized)

Notifications and system notes have in common that they are emitted by
"the system" (i.e. not by the users themselves) and that they are sent
by email to a list of "observers".

The difference is that system notes are meant as persistent historic
events while notifiations are being deleted automatically by
:manage:`linod`.

So system notes are not going to disappear.  But we need to adapt that
framework. 

That's why I created and did :ticket:`1054` (Adapt lino_xl.lib.notes
to new lino.modlib.notify):

- move the concept of system notes out of the core into
  :mod:`lino_xl.lib.notes`.

- creating a system note until now sent emails directly, now it
  creates notifications instead.

- We now differentiate beween :class:`Observable
  <lino.modlib.notify.mixins.Observable>` and :class:`ChangeObservable
  <lino.modlib.notify.mixins.ChangeObservable>`.

Side effects

- `My notifications` is back in the `Office` menu


A hotfix in Chatelet
====================

There was a typo bug in
:meth:`lino_xl.lib.courses.ui.Enrolments.create_instance`. I patched
it manually on their site.


Macken beim Erfassen von Teilnehmern
====================================

Alexa called my, this time with Gaby at her side, in order to report a
series of new, beautiful little problem reports:

- Einfügen Teilnehmer in Kurs mit F2 auf letzter Zeile der ersten
  Seite.  Neuer Teilnehmer erscheint dann dort und man kann z.B. die
  Anzahl Plätze eingeben. Aber wenn der Kurs mehr als eine
  Bildschirmseite voll Einschreibungen hat und es nicht die letzte
  Seite ist, dann ist das ja eigentlich nicht richtig. Und in der Tat,
  sobald man Refresh macht (oder Detail des Teilnehmers mal öffnet und
  wieder schliesst), ist der neue Teilnehmer wieder "verschwunden".

- Einfügen per Doppelklick, Teilnehmer auswählen, Lupe klicken. Zurück
  kommen: Patsch, das Eingabefenster ist blau.

- Tiens, statt des Pfeilchens vielleicht eher ⌕ (U+2315, eine Lupe)
  als Symbol zum Öffnen des Details.

I call them :ticket:`1055` and plan the following optimizations:

- Bug: Auf einem aktiven Kurs kann man "Einfügen" nicht klicken (weil
  aktive Kurse nicht bearbeitbar sind, was aber Unsinn ist)

- Einen neuen Kurs anlegen sollte nur Monique dürfen, nicht Gaby
- Hilfetext "Neuen Datensatz erstellen" ersetzen durch den Titel, den
  das Einfügefenster hat.

- Display a phantom row only on the last page of a grid panel.


Vigala Code Camp
================

Today would be the first day of the `Vigala Code Camp
<http://events.codeweek.eu/view/11737/vigala-coding-camp/>`__.  But
this first occurence of the camp is not happening due to lack of
participants.

Which does not mean that I am deceived.  It was an *almost expected*
condition since I did not do any active publicity for it. I just
announced it in my blog (on :doc:`0517`) and wrote that description on
our website (`Vigala Code Camps are coming up
<http://www.saffre-rumma.net/vcc/>`_).

And it doesn't mean either that there will no code camps in Vigala in
the future. It's rather the opposite: designing and planning this
Vigala Code Week made me hope more than ever that some day in the
future these camps will become reality.  We now even received a
`certificate
<http://events.codeweek.eu/static/certificates/11737-2e10732e546aece3b311185afda3684889243e8e.pdf>`_,
just because I introduced my report, declaring the number of
participants (1), their average age (48) and that 0% of them were
female. You might call it cheating to accept an automatically
generated certificate for an event which did not take place, but I
accepted it gratefully as a confirmation for my hope.
