:date: 2016-07-27

========================
Wednesday, July 27, 2016
========================

Support for applications with responsive design
===============================================

Cool! It is now possible to write Lino applications that use different
screen layouts depending on the device they are running on. At least
theoretically because the basic concepts are now implemented.  I
opened a new ticket :ticket:`1076` for this.

The first plugin which uses this new feature is
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.courses` (and its descendants
:mod:`lino_voga.lib.courses` and
:mod:`lino_voga.projects.roger.lib.courses`).

Responsive Design Support was not a very urgent feature, but it will
be needed to write a good solution for :ticket:`1078`.

Summary of changes:

- Lino now differentiates between the "models module" and the "actors
  module" of a plugin.  

- New dictionary :attr:`rt.models <lino.core.site.Site.actors>`
  contains the "actors" modules of each plugin.

- On plugins which define a design module, the models module should no
  longer contain actors.

- New site attributes :attr:`lino.core.site.Site.design_name`

- :meth:`rt.get_actors_module <lino.core.site.Site.get_actors_module>`

- Note that choicelists aren't actors and should be in :attr:`rt.models`

TODO: write documentation and a concrete example.


Notifications framework
=======================

Ticket :ticket:`1079` (Le système de mail ne fonctionne plus quand on
clique sur "Arriver" pour envoyer la personne en salle d'attente)
caused me to make some important changes to the notifications API. The
first version had some quite strange constructs. I think it is getting
better. And I also added two test modules to :ref:`welfare`. 

And I fixed a bug in :mod:`lino.utils.djangotest` which caused one of
these tests to fail when being run as part of the suite and to pass
when run individually. It seems that Django does not automatically
reset the current language between successive tests.




