:date: 2016-08-02

=======================
Tuesday, August 2, 2016
=======================

I continued on :ticket:`1089` and found the explanation. The new
:term:`appy.pod` seems more strict about whitespace in ``for``
statements.

The real error message (which I saw after rendering the document with
`raiseOnError=False` was:
  
   Bad "for" expression "row in". A "for" expression must be of the
   form: {name} in {expression}. {name} must be a Python variable
   name. It is the name of the iteration variable. {expression} is a
   Python expression that, when evaluated, produces a Python sequence
   (tuple, string, list, etc).

The template used to render ISIP contracts contained the
following statement at three places::

  do text for p in self.contractpartner_set.all()

The problem disappeared after I had gone through all three statements,
deleted the whitespace between "p" and "in", and inserted a new space.
Don't ask me what was wrong with the previous whitespace. There was no
visible difference. I was (h)appy that it worked and didn't want to
investigate the `content.xml`.

Inline strong start-string without end-string
=============================================

Yet another problem caused indirectly by the Ubuntu upgrade: I cannot
build the docs for atelier (without setting `tolerate_sphinx_warnings`
to `True`)::

  atelier/atelier/tasks.py:docstring of atelier.tasks:0: WARNING: Inline strong start-string without end-string.

This is actually an old problem. It comes because autosummary includes
imported objects (and because some external code may contain invalid
docstrings). See `Sphinx ticket #1061
<https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/issues/1061>`__.  I manualy
patched my copy of Sphinx as explained `there
<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/25405110/sphinx-autosummary-with-toctree-also-lists-imported-members/25460763#25460763>`__.


Transferred GitHub repositories for Lino and Lino Book
======================================================

I transferred ownership of the GitHub repositories for Lino and Lino
Book from my personal account to our team account, and I renamed
"lino_book" to simply "book".

==================================== ======================================
Old                                  New
==================================== ======================================
https://github.com/lsaffre/lino      https://github.com/lino-framework/lino

https://github.com/lsaffre/lino_book https://github.com/lino-framework/book

==================================== ======================================


As explained in `About repository transfers
<https://help.github.com/articles/about-repository-transfers/>`_ I
then was supposed to do::

  $ cd ~/repositories/lino
  $ git remote set-url origin https://github.com/lino-framework/lino.git
  $ cd ~/repositories/book
  $ git remote set-url origin https://github.com/lino-framework/book.git



Formatting Belgian national id numbers
======================================

The :attr:`national_id
<lino_xl.lib.beid.mixins.BeIdCardHolder.national_id>` of a
:class:`BeIdCardHolder<lino_xl.lib.beid.mixins.BeIdCardHolder>` is now
being formatted and validated immediately when the object is saved.

This behaviour is optional, though. In order to activate it, you must
set
:attr:`lino_xl.lib.beid.mixins.BeIdCardHolder.validate_national_id` to
`True`. This is because in :ref:`welfare` they might not want it.

In :ref:`voga` they now see the :class:`ProblemsByOwner
<lino.modlib.checkdata.models.ProblemsByOwner>` panel on every
partner view.


      

Yet another documentation bug
=============================

:ref:`grigorij` found yet another "bug" in :ref:`lino.tutorial.polls`:
The "config" directory must not be "under your project directory" but
in the "mysite" directory.

I also noted that the `<div class="htmlText">` is no longer necessary
since we now have
:meth:`lino.modlib.extjs.ext_renderer.ExtRenderer.html_text`.


Sphinx: search index couldn't be loaded
=======================================

The following warning is nagging me::

    Warning, treated as error:
    WARNING: search index couldn't be loaded, but not all documents will be built: the index will be incomplete.

It seems that the html builder has a problem when loading an existing
searchindex.js file. (the exception there is an IOError "read error at
pos 99758"). And because I use `-W
<http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/invocation.html#cmdoption-sphinx-build-W>`_,
I cannot do an incremental build any more.  As a temporary workaround
I patched my copy of Sphinx :file:`sphinx/builders/html.py`.  Before:: 

        except (IOError, OSError, ValueError):
            if keep:
                self.warn('search index couldn\'t be loaded, but not all '
                          'documents will be built: the index will be '
                          'incomplete.'.)

After:: 

        except (IOError, OSError, ValueError) as e:
            if keep:
                self.info('search index couldn\'t be loaded, but not all '
                          'documents will be built: the index will be '
                          'incomplete. ({})'.format(e))



Lino and Django 1.10
====================

Yes, :mod:`lino_xl.lib.sepa.fields` still uses
`SubfieldBase`. Django 1.9 issues a DeprecationWarning, and Django
1.10 says :message:`AttributeError: 'module' object has no attribute
'SubfieldBase'`.
