:date: 2016-08-03

=========================
Wednesday, August 3, 2016
=========================

What happens with Lino when Luc dies?
=====================================

I opened :ticket:`1095`, a rather administrative ticket.  The goal is
to formulate an answer to the often-heard question "What happens with
Lino when Luc dies?". (No I don't plan to die soon, but we all know
that I will do it sooner or later, and we all want a Lino which is
able to live without me).

Yesterday I had a chat with :ref:`alexa` which confirmed the urgence
of this ticket, and less than a few hours later :ref:`hamza` for the
first time pushed commits directly to the `lino` and `book`
repositories.

I continued that direction and transferred GitHub ownership of the
following repos from lsaffre to `lino-framework
<https://github.com/lino-framework>`__ (where :ref:`hamza` has the
same permissions as I):

- :ref:`atelier`
- :ref:`cosi`
- :ref:`voga`
- :ref:`welfare`
- :ref:`extjs6`

I also renamed "lino-cosi" to "cosi", "lino-welfare" to "welfare" and
"lino-extjs6" to "extjs6".

I changed the title of `lino-framework
<https://github.com/lino-framework>`__ from "Lino Framework" to "The
Lino Core Team".

I started a new document "Setting up your work environment" (now part
of :ref:`dev.runtests`) and updated some documentation pages in the
:ref:`community` section.

I also finally wrote a `Confidentiality Agreement
<http://www.saffre-rumma.net/dl/confidentiality_agreement.pdf>`_. Thanks
to `IPWatchdog
<http://www.ipwatchdog.com/tradesecret/simple-confidentiality-agreement-2/>`_
for providing a free sample.  Such an agreement is needed if Rumma &
Ko wants to grant individual freelancers access to production sites
where confidential customer data is being hosted.


Setting up a work environment
=============================

I created a new virtualenv "lino" on my machine and tried the things I
wrote in :ref:`dev.runtests`. I did some changes:

- removed 'appy==0.9.3' from :term:`install_requires` in Lino (appy is
  required by XL, and the version restriction is no longer necessary.
- removed 'fuzzy' from :term:`install_requires` in XL
- moved lino.modlib.print_pisa to lino_xl.lib.pisa
- removed lino.utils.appy_pod
- added `metaphone` to :term:`install_requires` in Welfare (Hamza, why
  did you use some other repository in requirements.txt which had some
  warning when I tried to install it?)  
- adapted welfare/docs/specs/dupable_clients.rst because the phonetic
  words are slightly changed (but look okay).
  
- One test in lino_book/docs/specs/dumps.rst was a little problematic
  because it failed with every little version change of some
  dependency. And of course it would never pass on both Python 2 & 3
  at the same time. So I just changed :manage:`dump2py` so that it
  does no longer write this :meth:`lino.core.site.Site.using_text`
  string as a comment of the dump files.

I wrote a bash script :file:`install_dev_projects.sh` which I placed
in my :xfile:`~/repositories` directory::

    #!/bin/bash
    set -e  # exit on error
    pip install -e atelier
    pip install -e lino
    pip install -e cd
    pip install -e ee
    pip install -e be
    pip install -e eg
    pip install -e xl
    pip install -e noi
    pip install -e cosi
    pip install -e presto
    pip install -e welfare
    pip install -e patrols
    pip install -e logos
    pip install -e voga

This makes it easy to create a virgin virtualenv and test whether the
installation works.
    
I adapted the :xfile:`setup.py` of some projects

I stopped to run the test suites under Py3 when I had the following in
:ref:`xl`::

    from appy.pod.renderer import Renderer
  File "/media/dell1tb/virtualenvs/lino3/lib/python3.5/site-packages/appy/__init__.py", line 126
    print '%d method(s) patched from %s to %s (%s)' % \

Which shows that `appy` is not yet usable under Python 3. We should
talk with Gaetan (author of appy) about who should do the work of
porting it...
