:date: 2016-08-04

========================
Thursday, August 4, 2016
========================

Lino Voga
=========

Two minor tickets: :ticket:`1107`
:meth:`lino_voga.lib.courses.desktop.EventsByCourse.get_slave_summary`
now displays the `auto_type`.

And :ticket:`1110` was caused by this code::

    def full_clean(self, *args, **kwargs):
        if self.fee_id is None and self.course_id is not None:
            self.fee_id = self.course.fee_id  # WRONG
            self.fee = self.course.fee        # RIGHT

And then I started to work on :ticket:`1059` (which is now a general
solution for prepayments). My plan is to create a powerful but
non-intrusive system by simply adding a :attr:`printed_text
<lino_cosi.lib.ledger.models.PaymentTerm.printed_text>` field to
:class:`PaymentTerm <lino_cosi.lib.ledger.models.PaymentTerm>`, and to
render this content using Jinja.

A side effect of this: I moved :meth:`render_jinja
<lino.modlib.jinja.Plugin.render_jinja>` out of
:class:`lino.core.requests.BaseRequest` to the plugin object because
it was nonsense to have it in the core.

And *en passant* I fixed :ticket:`1109`, modified demo fixtures to
create some partners with an invoice_recipient, adapted the test cases
and wrote a specs example for it in :ref:`voga.specs.invoicing`.

Miscellaneous
=============

I discovered that Django's :manage:`loaddata` emits yet another
ignorable warning :message:`No fixture data found for *` (which Lino
now ignores as it did already with :message:`No fixture named '.*'
found.`).


`git push` asking for username and password
===========================================

After :ticket:`1074` I did a mistake when running :cmd:`git remote
set-url origin`: I used the `https` and not the `git+ssh` version of
the urls. Here is how corrected it::

  $ go lino
  $ git remote set-url origin git+ssh://git@github.com/lino-framework/lino.git 

  $ go cosi  
  $ git remote set-url origin git+ssh://git@github.com/lino-framework/cosi.git

And similarily in other projects.  Notes:

- With the following command I get a nice list of the remotes in
  all my projects::

    $ pp git remote -v show

- It seems that the ``git+ssh://`` prefix is optional.


Lino Welfare
============

:ticket:`1111` was a bug in mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.isip.choicelists`
:which caused the following traceback on the server as soon as the
user specified some `start_date` or `end_date` in the filter
parameters::

    TRACEBACK:
      File "/media/dell1tb/virtualenvs/py27/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/core/handlers/base.py", line 147, in get_response
        response = wrapped_callback(request, *callback_args, **callback_kwargs)
      File "/py27/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/views/generic/base.py", line 68, in view
        return self.dispatch(request, *args, **kwargs)
      File "/py27/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/views/generic/base.py", line 88, in dispatch
        return handler(request, *args, **kwargs)
      File "/lino/lino/modlib/extjs/views.py", line 551, in get
        for row in ar.sliced_data_iterator]
      File "/lino/lino/core/tablerequest.py", line 140, in get_sliced_data_iterator_property
        self.execute()
      File "/lino/lino/core/tablerequest.py", line 79, in execute
        self._data_iterator = self.get_data_iterator()
      File "/lino/lino/core/tablerequest.py", line 155, in get_data_iterator
        return self.actor.get_request_queryset(self)
      File "/welfare/lino_welfare/modlib/jobs/models.py", line 356, in get_request_queryset
        qs = super(Contracts, cls).get_request_queryset(ar)
      File "/welfare/lino_welfare/modlib/isip/mixins.py", line 607, in get_request_queryset
        elif ce == ContractEvents.decided:

I added a test which covers this in :ref:`welfare.specs.jobs`.


Tests on travis-ci
==================

I added a :xfile:`requirements.txt` and :xfile:`.travis.yml` to
:ref:`cosi` and updated that of :ref:`welfare`. Similar actions for
:ref:`voga` and :ref:`noi`. I activated these repositories on Travis.

Yes, this is only the beginning, for the moment they are all still
red...
