:date: 2016-08-10

==========================
Wednesday, August 10, 2016
==========================

Optimizations in Lino Noi
=========================

With :ref:`annalisa` we had decided to remove the concepts of
milestones and deployments from :ref:`care` because we could not find
any sense to them there.

Implementation: I moved the models :class:`Milestone
<lino_noi.lib.deploy.models.Milestone>` and :class:`Deployment
<lino_noi.lib.deploy.models.Deployment>` from
:mod:`lino_noi.lib.tickets` to a new plugin
:mod:`lino_noi.lib.deploy`.  And this plugin is then *deactivated* in
:ref:`care`.

This action was rather time-consuming and not really necessary. Normal
people would just have removed the deployments and milestones from the
tables and layouts.

As a side effect we have a little new feature
:attr:`welcome_message_when_count
<lino.core.actors.Actor.welcome_message_when_count>`.

Another new feature is that Lino now complains when you specify an
invalid model name as the :attr:`lino.core.actors.Actor.model`.

For example :class:`lino_welfare.modlib.aids.models.Confirmations` had
``'aids.Confirmation'`` which was silently being replaced by `None` at
startup. The problem with this behaviour was that it is more difficult
to get correct error messages. I had still ``'tickets.Milestone'``
there and it took me some time to find it out.

En passant I also added a new filter parameter
:attr:`lino_noi.lib.tickets.ui.Tickets.site`.

I fixed a bug in :mod:`lino.core.kernel` which caused the help texts
of table parameter fields extracted from Sphinx docs to not appear in
the web interface because they were being installed only when the
:xfile:`linoweb.js` files had been generated.
