:date: 2016-08-11

===================================
20160811 (Thursday, 11 August 2016)
===================================

I made an upgrade on :ref:`lf` because at least the :ref:`voga` online
demo was broken.

I worked on the :ref:`lino.dev` because I realized (thanks to
:ref:`james` and :ref:`grigorij`) that after "Getting started" and
"Your first Lino application" I need to insert a new section
"Working with others".


How to find the source code from dotted notation
================================================

Here is a newbie question which surprised me, I wasn't aware that this
might be a problem, I needed :ref:`james` to stumble over it.

Some days ago I gave him the following hint for fixing :ticket:`1127`:

    You'll need to move some code from the get_used_libs() method in
    lino.core.site.Site to lino_welfare.projects.std.settings.Site

He then asked:
     
     Where can I find lino_welfare.projects.std.settings.Site?

**Answer 1**

Imagine that I would have written my hint in this blog, using Sphinx
markup to create underlying links:

    You'll need to move some code from the :meth:`get_used_libs
    <lino.core.site.Site.get_used_libs>` method in
    :class:`lino.core.site.Site` to
    :class:`lino_welfare.projects.std.settings.Site`.
          
You can now click on these links. Clicking on a link leads you to the
**API documentation page**, more precisely to the section of that page
which shows the docstring of the class or method I am taking about.

But how to find the source code? Note that every *API documentation
page* has, somewhere near the top, in a paragraph on its own, the
following sentence:

  (This module’s source code is available _here_.)

Clicking on the word _here_ leads you to a place on GitHub which
should show you the source file.

**Answer 2**

But you can do all this without clicking and without internet
connection, if you have the source code.

For example `lino_welfare.projects.std.settings.Site`.

The part before the first dot is `lino_welfare`. This is the top-level
name of a python package. It is the pythonic name of :ref:`welfare`,
which is published on PyPI under
https://pypi.python.org/pypi/lino-welfare and which you cloned from
GitHub.  Your copy of the source code should be in
:xfile:`~/repositories/welfare`. The structure of that directory is a
normal Python project, it contains (among others)::

  docs/
  lino_welfare/
  tests/
  setup.py
  README.rst

A special challenge with the name
`lino_welfare.projects.std.settings.Site` is that the corresponding
source code is defined **either** in a file
:file:`lino_welfare/projects/std/settings.py` **or** in a file
:file:`lino_welfare/projects/std/settings/__init__.py`.  Only one of
them can exist (Python would get confused if they would exist both).
      

