:date: 2016-08-15

=======================
Monday, August 15, 2016
=======================

Oops, in yesterday's version there was still a bug which caused the
:ref:`presto` test suite to break::

    Exception: tickets.MyTickets.param_defaults() returned invalid keyword 'user'

Now the bug is fixed, and the :ref:`noi` test suite also covers it.


Increase test coverage
======================

I "accidentally" worked on :ticket:`835`:

- :cmd:`inv clean` now accepts a ``--batch`` option.  
- I added a new configuration option :attr:`inv.coverage_command`
- The ``source`` option in :file:`.coveragerc` is a `multi-valued
  string
  <https://coverage.readthedocs.io/en/default/config.html#syntax>`__

And the :xfile:`tasks.py` of :ref:`book` now defines
:attr:`inv.coverage_command` to do the equivalent of::

      pp inv prep test clean --batch bd
      
Result: you can now run :cmd:`inv cov` in :ref:`book` to make a
coverage report which includes all projects. The process takes more
than half an hour to complete.

But the big problem is that I get::

    Coverage.py warning: Module lino_xl was never imported.
    Coverage.py warning: Module lino_book was never imported.
    Coverage.py warning: Module lino_noi was never imported.
    Coverage.py warning: Module lino_cosi was never imported.
    Coverage.py warning: Module lino_voga was never imported.
    Coverage.py warning: Module lino_presto was never imported.
    Coverage.py warning: Module lino_welfare was never imported.

Hm...
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/18573542/coverage-py-does-not-cover-script-if-py-test-executes-it-from-another-directory

Note that with the current solution, coverage result will depend on
the list of projects defined in your :xfile:`~/.atelier/config.py`.


Lino and the new ExtJS 6 Grid panel
===================================

I continued to work on ticket :ticket:`1072` after three weeks of
other (more urgent) things.

Once more I dived into the guides about `Grids
<http://docs.sencha.com/extjs/6.0.2-classic/guides/components/grids.html>`__
page. I noted that it speaks about setting `selType` which is
deprecated since ExtJS 5. So maybe the whole document is not
trustworthy.

Bon. Lino, until now, added a custom `handleKeyDown` event handler to
the `Ext.selection.CellModel` in order to add modifications to the
standard behaviour.

Question: What's the difference between::

  Ext.override(Ext.selection.CellModel, {...});

and::  

    Ext.define('Lino.selection.CellModel', {
      override : 'Ext.selection.CellModel',
      ...});

Theoretically I think that we want the first variant (`Ext.override
<http://docs.sencha.com/extjs/6.0.2-classic/Ext.html#method-override>`__).
Hamza, did you change this? Why?

But this question is no longer relevant, since I decided to completely
remove this custom event handler because:

- Anyway the `handleKeyDown` is never called because ExtJS 6 has a
  changed API there.
- The ENTER and F2 keys are handled correctly (as we want it) by
  adding the ``celledit`` plugin.
- I connected `celldblclick` to call :meth:`on_celldblclick` which
  needed a new signature.
- Many of these key combinations were not much used anyway (TAB, PgDn,
  PgUp, Ctrl+Home, ...)
- I added a handler for `cellkeydown` which currently is empty (just
  logs to the console) but should probably handle any special keys.

I am going to push these changes because I believe that it is the
right direction... but there is much to do:

- When editing a cell, e.g. END doesn't move to the end of the cell
  but to the last page of the grid. Not really what we want...
- The `afteredit` handler seems to be broken. It does not save objects.
- handle INSERT and DELETE in `on_cellkeydown`
- handle any normal key in `on_cellkeydown` so that it starts editing.
- we need to redefine what happens when user edits the phantom
  record. This is buggy also when using ExtJS3.

When working on this, I am currently using mysite::

  $ cd lino_extjs/projects/mysite
  $ touch manage.py ; runserver

And then click on [Tickets] to have a normal grid with more than one
page.
