:date: 2016-08-19

=======================
Friday, August 19, 2016
=======================

I updated the :ref:`community` section and started a new page
:ref:`lino.dev.interview`.

I tested the :ref:`dev.install` guide and discovered that it needs
more changes.


- :cmd:`inv initdb` failed when everything was installed as
  instructed. I added :mod:`lino_cosi` and several other dependencies
  to :ref:`book`. And then I released :ref:`cosi` 0.0.3.

TODO:

- It is *not* necessary to define a :envvar:`LINO_CACHE_ROOT`. This
  section should go to a later tutorial.

- It seems that we need to split the installation guide: one version
  for those who just want to see a quick result and another version
  which installs a full developer environment. The quickstart version
  would clone only the :ref:`book` repository. This will work of couse
  only when we get the templates problem fixed. Note that the
  :ref:`book` project is probably the only one for which a version on
  PyPI makes no sense because it is solely for educational, testing
  and documentation purposes and not meant for use on a production
  server.

- Also :cmd:`inv test` now works almost out of the box, except
  e.g. for a `TemplateNotFound: iban/uppercasetextfield.js`. The files
  *are* contained in the tar.gz file, but it seems that they don't get
  unpacked.

  In my :xfile:`~/.invoke.py` I have::

    sdist_dir = '/home/luc/work/book/docs/dl'

  Now I can create an sdist archive in that directory::

    $ go cosi ; inv sdist

  This does not get published on PyPI since I don't add the
  ``upgrade`` option.

  And then I can simulate a "real" install via PyPI by doing::

    $ pip install -f /home/luc/work/book/docs/dl/ lino-cosi
    

    
