:date: 2016-08-22

=======================
Monday, August 22, 2016
=======================

Hamza is working on :ticket:`1115`. I reviewed and accepted his pull
requests in atelier, lino, extjs6 and book.

My biggest worry with :ticket:`1115` is the problem I discovered on
:doc:`0805` (script :file:`django110_isnull.py` in
:mod:`lino_welfare.projects.eupen`).  I now saw that there is hope
that the problem is indeed a bug in Django 1.10 (`#26983
<https://code.djangoproject.com/ticket/26983>`_ which will be fixed in
`1.10.1
<https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.10/releases/1.10.1/>`_. Yes,
:class:`lino_xl.lib.countries.models.Country` is (at least within our
projects) the only model that uses a *CharField* as primary key.


Sphinx autosummary documents imported members
=============================================

Issue `2336 <https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/issues/2336>`_
is still not fixed in the current Sphinx version on PyPI.

I updated :ref:`lino.dev.bd`.


ImportError: No module named ee.places
======================================

Yet another error message on
https://readthedocs.org/projects/lino/builds/. I released version
0.0.2 of :mod:`commondata.be` and :mod:`commondata.ee` and then
manually relaunched a build. This build also failed `with the same
message <https://readthedocs.org/projects/lino/builds/4323054/>`_. For
the moment I see no explanation. Hamza, do you have any idea?

Size of address labels
======================

I worked on ticket :ticket:`1144`.  Address labels are being done by
:class:`lino_xl.lib.appypod.mixins.PrintLabelsAction`.  As a quick
solution I changed in the template file :xfile:`appypod/Labels.odt`
(in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.appypod`):

- changed row height from 30mm to 37mm
- changed all page borders to 0mm (because 37mm*8=296mm and I don't
  know whether the remaining 1mm goes to the top or to the bottom)
- In Table properties, changed "Spacing to content" from 0mm to 7mm
  (arbitrarily guessed value).

I also renamed the file from :xfile:`Labels.odt` to
:xfile:`appypod/Labels.odt`.

I also wrote a test case which covers the function.

TODO: add a method for users to select their own custom template
file.
