:date: 2016-08-24

====================================
20160824 (Wednesday, 24 August 2016)
====================================

Hamza added a series of badges to the Lino README.rst file. This looks
nice, but the badges were visible only on `GitHub
<https://gitlab.com/lino-framework/lino>`_ and not on `PyPI
<https://pypi.python.org/pypi/lino>`__ nor on `lino-framework.org
<http://www.lino-framework.org/api/index.html>`__. Hamza, you didn't
know the following: Until now I was using the convention of defining
the content of :xfile:`README.rst` in the :xfile:`setup_info.py` file,
and running :cmd:`inv readme` (or :cmd:`inv bd`) which overwrites the
README.rst file. The advantage of this rule is that we have the same
content for README.rst and the "long description" on PyPI (which is
also inserted on lino-framework.org).  For Lino and XL currently this
didn't happen because they don't have any `doc_tree`, and I had
another rule (in :mod:`atelier.invlib`) which said "when there are no
docs, then the README file is manually maintained". But I now removed
that (latter) rule so that README.rst is always overwritten when
SETUP_INFO contains a `long_description`. And I moved the badges
definitions to the :xfile:`setup_info.py` file.  I also adapted
:mod:`commondata` and subpackages to this new rule.

TODO (Hamza, I leave this to you if you have time):

- The coverage *badges* for Lino and XL should both link to the
  coverage *result* of Book.

- Building the docs caused warnings "nonlocal image URI found:
  https://readthedocs.org/projects/lino/badge/?version=latest".  I
  needed to set `tolerate_sphinx_warnings=True ` in :ref:`book`, but
  that's not a good thing. Please redefine the badges using ``.. raw::
  html`` directive so that no warning is given, and then reset
  tolerate_sphinx_warnings to False.


