:date: 2016-08-28

=======================
Sunday, August 28, 2016
=======================

Lino Care moving forward
========================

During our meeting on :doc:`Thursday <0825>` for :ref:`care` I
collected some more ideas for :ticket:`1128`.
(I'll continue on the following list :doc:`tomorrow <0829>`.)

DONE:

- `UserDetail` - remove useless fields addr1, street_prefix, ...
- To-Do-Liste anzeigen im Hauptbildschirm
- TicketDetail : clocking.SessionsByTicket only for Workers. This was
  caused by a bug (a missing
  ``e.add_requirements(*de.required_roles)`` ) in
  :mod:`lino.modlib.extjs.elems` which I also fixed in
  :mod:`lino_extjs6.extjs.elems`.


TODO:

- Add a button for sending a welcome mail to new users.

- Users must be able to say whether they want to get notified by email.

- New user profile "Collector" (Bittensammler)

- Einfache Benutzer sollen selbst ihre eigenen Tickets nicht löschen
  können.

- Collect feedback: the reporter of a ticket should be able (and
  invited) to evaluate a ticket when it has been done. New field
  `rating` (Excellent, Good, Okay, Suboptimal, Bad).

- Site admins should be able to see a history and make statistics
  about how many tickets have been requested, done, evaluated etc.

- Simple users should be able to write comments.  The "Office" menu
  should come back for them, but should come after the "Pleas" menu in
  the main menu toolbar.

TALK:
  
- Einen Vorschlag ablehnen können. IOW add a possibility to "refuse" a
  suggestion.
- Add a "geographical location" per ticket? Do we need the `site`
  field in its current meaning (in :ref:`care`)?
- Do we need a new model "Promise (user, ticket, date_taken,
  date_done, evaluation)"?


New tickets:

- Ask new users to confirm their email address (:ticket:`1149`)
- Usability from a smartphone  (:ticket:`1148`)
  

