:date: 2016-08-30

========================
Tuesday, August 30, 2016
========================

Lino Voga : manually modifying generated invoices
=================================================

The field `invoiced object` of a sales invoice item is a
:class:`GenericForeignKey <lino.modlib.gfks.fields.GenericForeignKey>`
pointing to the invoiceable object which caused this invoice
item. This field is injected by :mod:`lino_xl.lib.invoicing.models`
into the :attr:`item_model
<lino_xl.lib.invoicing.Plugin.item_model>`.

Until now it was not editable, but now it is. 

This was a bit tricky because there were two subtle problems in the
core:

- the automatic chooser defined by
  :class:`GenericForeignKey <lino.modlib.gfks.fields.GenericForeignKey>` did not work (I once
  wrote this but never tested it).
  
- :mod:`lino.modlib.extjs` generated invalid JS code when the field
  used as parameter of a chooser was a unicode string. It used this
  code::

    "...jscode...(%r)" % varname

  which caused JS code ``...jscode...(u'invoiceable_id')``. 
  Now it uses::
  
    "...jscode...('%s')" % varname
  
     

Lino Care : more optimizations
==============================

DONE:

- New field `rating` and a choicelist `Ratings` (Excellent, Good,
  Okay, Suboptimal, Bad).

- New user profile "Connector" (Bittensammler)

TALK:
  
- Einfache Benutzer sollen Bitten nicht löschen können (selbst ihre
  eigenen nicht).

- Site admins and connectors should be able to see a history and make
  statistics about how many pleas have been requested, done, rated
  etc.

- The "Office" menu should come *after* the "Pleas" menu in the main
  menu toolbar. Some commands of the Office menu seem useless and
  should get hidden again.
  
- Einen Vorschlag ablehnen können. IOW add a possibility to "refuse" a
  suggestion.
  
- Add a "geographical location" per ticket? Do we need the `site`
  field in its current meaning (in :ref:`care`)?
  
- Do we need a new model "Promise (user, ticket, date_taken,
  date_done, evaluation)"?

- How to invite the reporter of a ticket to *rate* a ticket when it
  has been done?  List of "Unrated pleas which are done".
    
- Was sollen Bittensammler alles tun können?
