:date: 2016-09-01

===========================
Thursday, September 1, 2016
===========================

I continued with :ticket:`1143`.

The :cmd:`inv sdist` command now checks whether the current version is
already published on PyPI, and if so, fails.  For projects which have
no `version` in their :xfile:`setup_info.py` it will do nothing.  As a
result, I can now run the following command::

  $ pp inv sdist

This creates a "fake release" of the next version for all projects in
my :attr:`env.sdist_dir`.

I had to change the `version` of several projects. Note that
:ref:`algus` will never be published on PyPI because that would make
no sense.

I wrote a new command :cmd:`inv test_sdist`. Actually this command has
existed once in the past, but I never got it to work. Now it seems to
work, at least on :ref:`noi`.



Changed user role for ReceptionClerkNewcomers
=============================================

Yesterday night I deployed ticket :ticket:`1154` to :ref:`welcht`, and
this morning Mathieu reported "Merci mais l’accueil n’a plus accès à
la visualisation des rendez-vous.".

Which means that we found yet another place which was not covered by
any test.

The solution itself was easy:
:class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.reception.models.AppointmentsByPartner` uses
the event's :attr:`when_text <lino_xl.lib.cal.models.Event.when_text>`
column which usually is clickable. But (as a consequence of my
fiddlings with the user roles) the :class:`OneEvent
<lino_xl.lib.cal.models.OneEvent>` was no longer viewable for
`OfficeOperator`.

Less easy and more interesting was how to cover this.  It unvealed a
subtle but fundamental problem: when rendering :meth:`obj2html
<lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.obj2html>` in a doctest snippet, there
was no visible difference between clickable links and non-clickable
links.  The best (though not easiest) solution was to change
:meth:`lino.core.renderer.HtmlRenderer.action_call` to no longer
return `None`.  As an example, here is a (simplified) doctest code
snippet from :ref:`welfare.specs.reception` before and after this
change.

BEFORE:

>>> rt.login('theresia').show(reception.AppointmentsByPartner, obj)
=========================== ================= =======================================================
 When                        Managed by        Workflow
--------------------------- ----------------- -------------------------------------------------------
 *Thu 15/05/2014 at 09:00*   Caroline Carnol   **Accepted** → [Excused] [Absent] [Present] [Checkin]
 *Thu 22/05/2014*            Mélanie Mélard    **Waiting** → [Receive] [Checkout]
 ...
=========================== ================= =======================================================
<BLANKLINE>

AFTER:

>>> rt.login('theresia').show(reception.AppointmentsByPartner, obj)
====================================== ================= =======================================================
 When                                   Managed by        Workflow
-------------------------------------- ----------------- -------------------------------------------------------
 `Thu 15/05/2014 at 09:00 <Detail>`__   Caroline Carnol   **Accepted** → [Excused] [Absent] [Present] [Checkin]
 `Thu 22/05/2014 <Detail>`__            Mélanie Mélard    **Waiting** → [Receive] [Checkout]
 ...
====================================== ================= =======================================================


This little change caused of course some failures in existing test
suites, but I think that it was worth the effort.


Oops
====

Okay, while updating :ref:`dev.setup_info` I had been thinking that
the following is more elegant::

    from past.builtins import execfile
    execfile('lino_noi/setup_info.py')

But it doesn't work because it depends on the `future
<https://pypi.python.org/pypi/future>`_ package and :xfile:`setup.py`
is being run before dependencies are installed. So it must remain the
less readable variant::
  
    fn = 'lino_noi/setup_info.py'
    exec(compile(open(fn, "rb").read(), fn, 'exec'))
