:date: 2016-09-02

=========================
Friday, September 2, 2016
=========================

Optimizations for Lino Voga
===========================

With Alexa we discovered the following bug: when specifying, in an
invoicing plan, a :attr:`partner
<lino_cosi.lib.invoicings.models.Plan.partner>` which is not a pupil
(but for example an oranization), then Lino failed to generate
invoices.  This was because :meth:`get_invoiceables_for_plan
<lino_voga.lib.courses.models.Enrolment.get_invoiceables_for_plan>`
forgot that the partner might still be an invoice_recipient.
:ticket:`1109`.  TODO: write a test case to cover this.

Added an action `show_invoice_partners`
and table :class:`lino_xl.lib.trading.models.PartnersByInvoiceRecipient`

And then an addition to :ticket:`1075` (Teilnehmerfilter erweitern) :
wenn man in Teilnehmerliste eine Aktivität als Filter angibt,
berücksichtigt Lino jetzt auch Beginn- und Enddatum.

I wanted to deploy this to :ref:`eiche` before they start working and
therefore committed these changes without having run the full test
suite. And trustful Travis promptly detected a failure.

Error messages on Travis
========================

In :ref:`voga` we had the following error message::

  jinja2.exceptions.TemplateNotFound: courses/Enrolment/item_description.html

I fixed this by adding a `-e` option in :xfile:`.travis.yml`.

And then we had::

  /bin/bash: pytest: command not found

This went away, maybe after I added pytest to some dependency.

And this one was tricky::

    ImportError: No module named unohelper

It was because we need to run `sudo apt-get install python3-uno`.  The
`Uno Project <http://www.openoffice.org/udk/>`_ is not very well
documented.  appy.pod at some moment runs a Python 3 subprocess which
will communicate with LibreOffice using the `Python bridge
<http://www.openoffice.org/udk/python/python-bridge.html>`_.


And :mod:`commondata` 0.0.2 fails to install in Python 3 with::

    NameError: name 'file' is not defined

Same for :mod:`commondata.be` and :mod:`commondata.be`. I solved this
by adding, in book requirements.txt development versions for these
projects as well.


The :ref:`xl` test suite fails under Python 3 with::
         
  File ".../xl/tests/test_appy_pod.py", line 24, in <module>
    from appy.pod.renderer import Renderer
  File ".../python3.5/site-packages/appy/__init__.py", line 126
    print '%d method(s) patched from %s to %s (%s)' % \
                                                  ^
  SyntaxError: invalid syntax

I now sent a mail to Gaetan, asking how to proceed. I can reproduce
these errors locally and they are rather trivial to solve, but I am
not sure whether he is able and willing to accept contributions.

And yet another one::

    appy.pod.actions.EvaluationError: Problem installing fixture '/home/travis/virtualenv/python2.7.9/src/lino-xl/lino_xl/lib/excerpts/fixtures/demo2.py': Error while evaluating the expression "html(body)" defined in the "from" part of a statement. Exception: 20150923 html2xhtml(...
    Invalid endtag. Expected </b>, found <p>
  
This was because ``sudo apt-get install tidy`` was missing in
`before_install` of the :xfile:`travis.yml`.


ValueError: Cannot convert b'Aktiv' to Excel
============================================

I fixed a bug in :mod:`lino.modlib.export_excel` which caused above
error when somebody wanted to export a table with a
:mod:`lino.core.choicelists.Choicelist` column.
