:date: 2016-09-06

==========================
Tuesday, September 6, 2016
==========================

About Tunisia
=============

I start to get excited about my travel to Tunesia next week.

It is now quite exactly one one year that Hamza discovered Lino and
started working for us as a freelancer, and this is our first real
life meeting. This is also the first time that I leave the European
continent (yes, I am not a good tourist).

I read about `Chott el Djerid
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chott_el_Djerid>`_ and `Desert roses
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Desert_rose_(crystal)>`_, and then `A
savoir avant de partir en vacances en Tunisie
<http://www.mackoo.com/Tunisie/avant.htm>`__.


About copyright
===============

I read `Copyright in General
<http://www.copyright.gov/help/faq/faq-general.html#what>`__ and `What
Does Copyright Protect?
<http://www.copyright.gov/help/faq/faq-protect.html>`_, then the
Wikipedia articles about `Copyright
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copyright>`__ and `Opposition to
copyright <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Opposition_to_copyright>`__.

"When an author dies, the ownership of the copyright
changes. Copyright is personal property, so the person who created the
work could choose whom to pass the ownership of the copyright
to. Copyright is treated no differently than other property. So
ownership in a copyright can be passed to an heir or to a third party
via a will." (`source
<http://www.newmediarights.org/business_models/artist/what_happens_copyright_when_copyright_holder_dies>`_).

I realized that actually I am not the copyright owner of Lino. If I
would die suddenly, Rumma & Ko as my employer would be the copyright
owner. At least according to US laws. To check whether Estonian laws
say the same. I should either write an annex to my work contract, or
change all copyright headers and make *Rumma & Ko* the copyright
holder of all my work.

And then I should check with Hamza whether he agrees to assign
copyright on his contributions to Rumma & Ko. Since he is a freelancer
and not an employee, "he will usually retain copyright in any works he
produces, unless there is a contractual agreement to the contrary."
(found `here
<https://www.gov.uk/guidance/ownership-of-copyright-works>`__).  If we
don't write an agreement about it, Lino is a collective work.

Another option would be to `assign copyright to the FSF
<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/why-assign.html>`_.  Or rather to the
FSFE because they are in Europe.  They have the `Fiduciary License
Agreement <https://fsfe.org/activities/ftf/fla.en.html>`__ for that.

I read `Is it fair to require copyright assignments from contributors
of an OS project?
<http://programmers.stackexchange.com/questions/185729/is-it-fair-to-require-copyright-assignments-from-contributors-of-an-os-project>`__
and rather agree with the answerers.

But "unfortunately, FSFE is no longer accepting new projects under the
Fiduciary Programme at the moment" (`see here
<https://fsfe.org/activities/ftf/fiduciary.en.html>`__). And I also
saw `FSFE's Fiduciary License Agreement is no panacea
<https://www.linux.com/news/fsfes-fiduciary-license-agreement-no-panacea>`__.


Don't all these questions become near to irrelevant if we simply
change the license for all Lino projects from AGPL to BSD?


Content management à la Lino
============================

I tried to get :mod:`lino_book.projects.cms` up and running
again. This demo was completely broken. Now it is a bit less broken,
but needs a bit more work before it is worth a look.
