:date: 2016-09-08

===========================
Thursday, September 8, 2016
===========================

Today I continued with my list of optimizations for :ticket:`1128`.

Instant messaging is for later
==============================

Yesterday I added a field `Notification.from_user` because with Anna
we had had that exciting idea:

- The ✉ button on a user should open a dialog window in order to send
  a message to that user. That is, we might extend
  :mod:`lino.modlib.notify` to become an instant messaging system.

I now removed that field again. Because messages between users are
after all quite different from notifications.  One day we will maybe
add an instant messaging system plugin, but that will be a different
plugin.  And :ref:`care` should not try to replace existing social
network systems.  For :ref:`care` I'd rather suggest a table where a
user can enter her name in external internet sites. And other users
would then get direct links to the user page on that site.

Rename "User Profile" to "User type"
====================================

:ticket:`1031`.  I changed the `verbose_name` of `UserProfiles` from
"User Profile" to "User type". IOW only the visible part. the internal
naming still remains "profile" at many places. And no change in
database structure.  This is a first careful test in order to see how
users accept the new vocabulary.

Miscellaneous
=============

The :mod:`lino.sphinxcontrib.help_texts_extractor` now uses an
:class:`OrderedDict` because until now two subsequent runs on the same
might still produce different files and cause useless `git`
operations.

Defining `required_roles` for a Panel
=====================================

In certain situations Lino failed to install the specified
required_roles. I noticed it when I wanted to add a `required_roles`
to the `history_tab` of `TicketDetail`::

    class TicketDetail(dd.DetailLayout):
        main = "general more history_tab"
        ...
        history_tab = dd.Panel("""
        changes.ChangesByMaster:50 stars.StarsByController:20
        """, label=_("History"), required_roles=dd.required(Triager))


Lino simply ignored this.  It was a bug in :mod:`lino.utils.jsgen`.
