:date: 2016-09-27

===========================
Tuesday, September 27, 2016
===========================

Optimierungen Lino Care September 2016
======================================

I created a new ticket :ticket:`1188` which actually groups the
tickets I talked about with :ref:`annalisa` last week.

- new and sticky are now being considered "active" states.


Python 2to3 compatibilities
===========================

As a side effect of :ticket:`1157` I eliminated some more (not all)
Python 3 incompatibilites in :ref:`noi`, :ref:`cosi`, :ref:`welfare`,
:ref:`book` and some other projects.

This was because a nice thing happened: Sandro reported that he had
started to convert appy.pod to be compatible Python 2 and 3.

But he had "started from the sources downloaded as tar.gz as he was
not able to understand which is the URL of Gaetan's repository since
the launchpad one is outdated."

So I now did about the same work, but I did it on a clone of the
currently official appy repository, using a fresh checkout by running
"svn co https://svn.forge.pallavi.be/appy-python-3/luc appy" as Gaetan
explained to me in his mail on 2016-09-06.  I committed my changes and
they are now visible here:

  https://forge.pallavi.be/projects/appy-python-3/repository/revisions/12

But unlike Sandro I did not care about :cmd:`python Tester.py`, I only
removed the things which caused my own test suites to fail. When I run
:cmd:`inv test` in :ref:`noi` under Python3, then if fails because of
a Syntax error in appy.pod.

Sando created a repo on bitbucket to show his work:

  https://bitbucket.org/jumboteam/appypod23

The question now is: will Gaetan be able to merge our work into his
official version?



Lino and Docker
================

:ref:`subha` is working on :ticket:`1176`. Our idea is to provide some
docker files on the `docker hub <https://hub.docker.com/>`__ so that
independent Lino hosters can quickly create a new Lino instance.

In a first step I suggest two dockerfiles with the following demo
applications:

- :mod:`lino_noi.projects.team`
- :mod:`lino_voga.projects.roger`
     
When these dockerfiles are ready, we will need to write documentation
on the Lino website about how to use them.  I started this
documentation under :ref:`lino.hosters`.  (Subha, these files are in
the :ref:`book` repository under :file:`docs/hosters`. Feel free to
modify them.)
