:date: 2016-10-01

=========================
Saturday, October 1, 2016
=========================

Instant messaging via Lino?
===========================

:ticket:`932` (Make the comments system in Noi usable) is to get Lino
Noi into a state where we can actually use it for discussing about
Lino related topics, including email and instant messaging.  It will
probably require a new feature of popup notification like Facebook and
Hangouts have.

This ticket partly revokes my previous statement that Lino Noi "does
not want to replace" existing email and messaging applications. In the
beginning I believed that it is possible to just "integrate" these
applications. Meanwhile I believe that integrating is even more utopic
than replacing them.

While :ticket:`932` is for "internal" use and less urgent, we have the
following customer tickets:

- :ticket:`930` (Send notification when a guest checks in)
- :ticket:`923` (Display live notifications even when the browser is
  minimized)

Especially :ticket:`923` is tricky.  When :ref:`gx` and I started to
talk about this, I suggested that Lino just sends notifications *via
e-mail* and the social agents just need an e-mail client which
displays notifications when new mails arrive.

Unfortunately it seems that this is not possible (Gerd tried already
several times to explain me why, but I still didn't understand).

Do we accecpt :ticket:`923`? We might refuse it with the explanation
that we are not going to write a better Facebook.

If we accept it, what would this mean? I see at least two new things
to learn:

- Make Lino event-driven using Django-Channels (see e.g. `Quick
  introduction to Django Channels
  <http://www.machinalis.com/blog/introduction-to-django-channels/>`_
  or `Abu Ashraf Masnun, A Brief Introduction to Django Channels
  <http://masnun.com/2016/09/11/a-brief-introduction-to-django-channels.html>`__)

- Choose a protocol for instant messaging (see e.g. `Comparison of
  instant messaging protocols
  <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_instant_messaging_protocols>`_)

First meeting with Rauno
========================

Today was my first meeting with :ref:`rauno`.  Rauno found us via
`talendidkoju.ee
<http://www.talendidkoju.ee/too-ja-praktikapakkumised/too/lino-application-developer?area=infotehnoloogia>`__,
a job database for companies located in Estonia, maintained by the
`Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry <http://www.koda.ee/en>`__.

After two or three rather disappointing experiences with Estonian ICT
students, I was now surprised to see that this guy is a rather
promising young man.  In only one session we reached as far as
:ref:`dev.contrib`, and he made his `first commit
<https://github.com/lino-framework/book/commit/af7264f371e975abe66b663c8417a557d2173b50>`_. (If
we committed directly and did not do a pull request, that's rather
*my* mistake than his.)

Rauno will make more volunteer work during the coming weeks in the
hope of getting a regular job at :ref:`rumma`.
