:date: 2016-10-04

========================
Tuesday, October 4, 2016
========================

Thanks to :ref:`subha` who worked on :ticket:`1176` and `committed a
new file <https://github.com/lino-framework/noi/pull/5>`__.


Do we need a Lino Software foundation?
======================================

Subha's contribution reminded me that it is not clear how we should
handle certain juristic questions: e.g. Who is the copyright holder of
his file? Should we formulate and sign `Contributor License Agreements
<https://www.djangoproject.com/foundation/cla/>`_ as Django does it?
What would happen if one of us would (accidentally) commit a file with
sensitive confidential data or copyrighted content. Who would be
liable?  Who would be my successor if I happened to die?  Should I
assign the copyright of all my files to the Lino Team (and ask
contributors to do the same)?

AFAICS the "Lino Team" currently is an "informal group" of
"co-publishers". 

I now saw an interesting article about this on the `Digital Media Law
Project <http://www.dmlp.org/legal-guide/informal-group>`_. My notes:

- AFAICS the Lino Team cannot be considered a partnership because it
  *does not generate revenue or intend to make and distribute profits*.

- (quote) While this form of publishing content has the advantage of
  informality and flexibility (no formation or operating costs, no
  burden some bureaucratic requirements), it creates a great deal of
  uncertainty about the legal and tax status of the co-publishers'
  relationship. This uncertainty can have negative consequences,
  including exposing co-publishers to personal liability for the
  unlawful acts of their colleagues, and creating complications in the
  management and/or dissolution of the enterprise, as well as certain
  tax consequences.
  
- (quote) Co-publishers can enter into a formal "co-publishing"
  agreement in order to clarify the status of their relationship and
  set out the parameters under which the group will operate. If
  co-publishers are carrying on a business for profit, then this
  agreement will be legally indistinguishable from a partnership
  agreement, and they will have adopted the partnership form of
  business. If co-publishers are not carrying on a business for
  profit, then the group won't legally be a partnership, but the
  agreement can set out group decision-making procedures, delegate
  duties, and describe what assets (including copyrights) will belong
  to and be licensed to whom.

Currently I am the legal owner of Lino because I am the author.  But
actually Lino is free software and therefore owned by "us all" who
want to use it.

And then there is hope if :ref:`rauno` continues to be motivated, that
I will want to employ him. A full-time developer requires a bit more
of money than :ref:`rumma` has for the moment (it actually depends on
how quickly we find new customers).

Until now :ref:`rumma` is doing all the work of building and
maintaining a Lino community, but finding a legally waterproof answer
to these questions requires more expertise than I have.

All this seems to confirm that we need a *Lino Software Foundation*
(:ticket:`1165`).  OTOH, creating a foundation or any other legal form
of organization is by itself a lot of administrative work. Who is
going to do *this* work?

As a funny coincidence, today I plan a live meeting with a friend who
might give advice about these questions.


About pull requests
===================

I surfed about pull requests...

- `How to make pull requests *without* a github account?
  <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9630774/how-to-make-pull-requests-without-a-github-account>`__
  (2012-03-09)

- `Why Linus Thorvalds doesn't do github pull requests.
  <https://github.com/torvalds/linux/pull/17#issuecomment-5654674>`__
  (2012-05-11)

- The `git request-pull <https://git-scm.com/docs/git-request-pull>`__
  command.

... and started to write :ref:`dev.request_pull`.
