:date: 2016-10-10

========================
Monday, October 10, 2016
========================


Moving from AGPL to BSD
=======================

I worked for ticket :ticket:`1213` (Change license of applications
from AGPL to BSD) and switched :ref:`xl` and :ref:`noi` from AGPL to
BSD.  This is another step in our general move from AGPL to BSD.  Lino
itself (the core and the book) were already BSD licensed.

TODO: Note that :ref:`cosi`, :ref:`voga`, :ref:`presto` and
:ref:`welfare` must remain under AGPL because of the
:mod:`lino_cosi.lib.b2c.camt` module which was originally copied from
Odoo.  We should maybe move this module from :ref:`cosi` to
:ref:`welfare` some day so that :ref:`cosi`, :ref:`voga` and
:ref:`presto` can become BSD as well.


An example of permission management à la Lino
=============================================

Ticket :ticket:`1214` is an example to illustrate :ref:`permissions`.

The `contracts` tab of
:class:`lino_welfare.projects.eupen.modlib.pcsw.models.ClientDetail`
is defined as follows::

    contracts = dd.Panel("""
    isip.ContractsByClient
    jobs.CandidaturesByPerson
    jobs.ContractsByClient
    """, label=_("Contracts"))

Exercise: find the definitions of these tables, and which is their
:attr:`lino.core.permissions.Permittable.required_roles`.

Basically I just replaced :class:`IntegrationAgent
<lino_welfare.modlib.integ.roles.IntegrationAgent>` by
:class:`SocialAgent <lino_welfare.modlib.pcsw.roles.SocialAgent>`
for certain tables.

:ref:`welfare.specs.eupen`
:ref:`welfare.specs.clients.eupen`
:ref:`welfare.specs.chatelet`

This ticket reveals that the :class:`DebtsUser` role (Debt mediation
agent) currently inherits from :class:`SocialAgent`, and that this is
maybe not what they want.  I guess that the customer does not want the
Contracts panel to become visible also for `DebtsUser`. But I am not
sure. I must ask them.


Hide calendar events before a configurable date
===============================================

Alexa and Monique will soon start with scheduling their events
for 2017.  That's why they asked (or we decided that they want) that
EventsByCourse should show only the events within a configurable date
range. In a first step I think that we don't want a date *range* but
just a single global configurable date labeled "Hide calendar events
before".  This is ticket :ticket:`1202`.

They asked it only for :class:`EventsByCourse
<lino_voga.lib.courses.desktop.EventsByCourse>`, but I am tempted to say they
other people will also want such a feature.

- :mod:`lino_xl.lib.cal.models` now injects a field
  :attr:`hide_events_before` to their :class:`SiteConfig
  <lino.modlib.system.models.SiteConfig>`.

- The :class:`Events <lino_xl.lib.cal.ui.Events>` table (and therefore
  all tables of calendar events which don't set this value themselves)
  now sets its :attr:`start_date
  <lino_xl.lib.cal.ui.Events.start_date>` to the value given by this
  SiteConfig field.

- I adapted the `detail_layout` for
  `SiteConfig` of :ref:`voga`.

This was for the change itself.

Then I had to decide how to test the new fixture. The obvious way is
to set a non-empty value for this field in some demo database and to
see whether it is being taken into account.  This is now done in the
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.cal.fixtures.std` fixture, i.e. for all applications
which use :mod:`lino_xl.lib.cal`.  As expected, this caused changes in
the test suites of several projects (not only :ref:`voga` but also
:ref:`welfare`, :ref:`cosi` and :ref:`book`).
