:date: 2016-10-17

========================
Monday, October 17, 2016
========================

Lino failed to generate until the end
=====================================

I fixed :ticket:`1220`. This was a subtle one.  I had to change the
algorithm for re-generating automatic events.  Lino until now built
the "wanted events" also for events which which had already taken
place. This was not only useless, it also disturbed in the following
situation (example):

    Course #1 happened in 2016 every Friday at 9:30, course #2 at
    13:30. In 2017 course #2 happens at 9:30 (and course #2 on
    Thursday).

I did not write a test case for reproducing this problem because that
takes time and because the client had a concrete example in their
database. But I extended
:mod:`lino_voga.projects.roger.tests.test_faggio` to make sure that
superfluous events get removed when `max_events` is changed.

A ticket for Rauno
==================

I opened :ticket:`1225` for this (Write a test case which reproduces
:ticket:`1220`) and assigned it to :ref:`rauno`.

Rauno, here are some first hints:

- Make sure you understand the original problem (:ticket:`1220`).  The
  ticket has been fixed by `3bcbd30
  <https://github.com/lino-framework/xl/commit/3bcbd30bb39226a3423eafd94aa8a203309a9ee9>`__,
  so you need to checkout some older version, e.g. `7b63c2f
  <https://github.com/lino-framework/xl/commit/7b63c2f487cc2b1d2516df4e41c64f820e9da1ce>`__::

    $ go xl
    $ git checkout 7b63c2f

- Start by manually reproducing it in the web interface.    
  
- Extend the :mod:`lino_voga.projects.roger.tests.test_faggio` case
  (or create a new test case, starting from a copy of this file) in
  order to get the problem. Verify your changes by running that test
  until you have the problem reproduced and the test case passing::

      $ go voga
      $ cd lino_voga/projects/roger
      $ python manage.py test

  IOW you simulate the situation before we knew about #1220.

- Switch back to the master (where the ticket should be fixed)::

    $ go xl
    $ git checkout master

  And then change :mod:`test_faggio
  <lino_voga.projects.roger.tests.test_faggio>` so it passes with the
  new version.


Aurélie reported :ticket:`1226`:

  Actuellement seul un administratuer ou la personne qui a orienté un
  bénéficiaire dans un Atelier peut modifier l'état: "demandé",
  "confirmé", "commencé", "terminé".  Mais c'est la personne en charge
  de l'Atelier qui doit pouvoir le modifier.

She speaks about the :class:`Enrolment.state
<lino_xl.lib.courses.models.Enrolment.state>`.  Actually it is not
only about this field, I guess that she means all fields of the
enrolment.  The default behaviour is because `Enrolment` inherits from
`UserAuthored`. In :ref:`welcht` they want to keep track about who
created an enrolment, but the permission to write should go also to
the course's teacher.

