:date: 2016-10-19

===========================
Wednesday, October 19, 2016
===========================

Miscellaneous
=============

I added a new method :meth:`ChangeObserver.get_notify_message
<lino.modlib.notify.mixins.ChangeObserver.get_notify_message>`
(internal preparation for :ticket:`1227`).

I read `Why Do People Contribute to Open Source Projects?
<http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/people-contribute-open-source-projects/>`__. A
nice overview.


Add blogging to Lino Noi
========================

I opened and almost finished ticket :ticket:`1237`: Add blogging
functionality to :mod:`lino_noi.projects.team`.
     
This seems the good way for collecting release notes, as a replacement
for the current system of "deployments" (which I stopped to use
because it is not realistic).  Blog entries (unlike comments) are not
meant for our internal communication but rather for communicating news
about our work to the "outside world": (1) release notes ("What's
changed?") for end-users and (2) upgrade instructions for local system
administrators.

Changes:

- Add a :class:`lino_xl.lib.blogs.models.Tagging` model to link blog
  entries and topics.

- Added a admin main item

- Miscellaneous optimizations in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.blogs` and others.

TODO:  

- Release it and try it on the field
- Write a printable report which shows all blog entries in a given
  period for a given site (based on the interests of that site).
- References to tickets in blog entries (``[ticket 1]``) are not yet
  clickable.
- Generally improve the bootstrap3 interface

