:date: 2016-11-11

=========================
Friday, November 11, 2016
=========================

Open letter to Donald Trump
===========================

I signed the `Global Open Letter to Donald Trump
<https://www.avaaz.org/campaign/en/president_trump_letter_loc/>`__
which says:

    Dear Mr. Trump, 

    This is not what greatness looks like. 

    The world rejects your fear, hate-mongering, and bigotry. We reject
    your support for torture, your calls for murdering civilians, and your
    general encouragement of violence. We reject your denigration of
    women, Muslims, Mexicans, and millions of others who don’t look like
    you, talk like you, or pray to the same god as you.

    Facing your fear we choose compassion. Hearing your despair we choose
    hope. Seeing your ignorance we choose understanding.

    As citizens of the world, we stand united against your brand of
    division.

    | Sincerely,
    | Luc Saffre

I also join the hopes and warnings expressed in the `statement of
Archbishop Joseph E. Kurtz of Louisville, Kentucky
<http://www.usccb.org/news/2016/16-147.cfm>`__.

Let's pray:

- May our politicians propagate the values of compassion, hope,
  love for our ennemies, and unity of humans.

- May our polititians have the courage to learn, to grow in spirit and
  to change their convictions where needed.

- Let us see the face of God in our neighbors, especially the
  suffering or those with whom we may disagree.


Desktop notifications
=====================

I merged `Hamza's work
<https://github.com/lino-framework/lino/pull/62>`__ on :ticket:`923`
into :ref:`lino` (the `channels` branch).

Applications with :mod:`lino.modlib.notify` now use `Tyler Nickerson's
<https://tylernickerson.com/>`__ the `Push.js
<https://nickersoft.github.io/push.js/>`__ library for displaying
"desktop notifications" instead of plain JavaScript "alert" messages.


My own mail server
==================

It is already more than a week that `smtp.elisa.ee` refuses to talk to
the postfix on :ref:`lf` when it tries to relay an outbound mail::

  host smtp.elisa.ee[194.150.66.204] refused to talk to me:
  554 5.7.1 <unknown[194.204.31.42]>: Client host rejected: Access denied

Now I started to convert :ref:`lf` into a `stand-alone mail server
<http://www.postfix.org/STANDARD_CONFIGURATION_README.html#stand_alone>`__

Excerpts of my :file:`/etc/postfix/main.cf` file::

    # relayhost = smtp.elisa.ee

    # LS 20161111       
    # Alternative 1: don't relay mail from other hosts.
    mynetworks_style = host
    relay_domains =


Now of course the situation changed. The other side still refuses to
talk to me, but now it is `gmx.net`, and they give an explanation
which I can understand::
  
  Nov 11 13:06:30 vps postfix/smtp[1281]: 761A82A684F:
  to=<luc.saffre@gmx.net>, relay=mx00.emig.gmx.net[212.227.15.9]:25,
  delay=1.3, delays=0.08/0.01/1.2/0, dsn=4.0.0, status=deferred (host
  mx00.emig.gmx.net[212.227.15.9] refused to talk to me: 554-gmx.net
  (mxgmx005) Nemesis ESMTP Service not available 554-No SMTP service
  554 invalid DNS PTR resource record, IP=194.204.31.42)

Yes, this is my problem::

    $ host 194.204.31.42
    Host 42.31.204.194.in-addr.arpa. not found: 3(NXDOMAIN)

I must setup a correct reverse DNS zone.  `How to setup Reverse DNS
and PTR records
<http://www.itworld.com/article/2833006/networking/how-to-setup-reverse-dns-and-ptr-records.html>`__

Desktop notifications continued
===============================

Hamza and I played around and discussed about desktop notifications.

- Messages should no longer automatically get marked as seen as soon
  as they are displayed by the browser (because the user might be away
  from their computer).
  
- The current behaviour when clicking a desktop notification is to
  focus the browser window. That's perfect.

- It seems that "rich" desktop notifications (i.e. which contain
  clickable links or formatted text) are not recommended:
  https://developer.chrome.com/extensions/desktop_notifications

TODO Hamza:

- don't mark messages as read in routing.py
- Remove HTML tags from notification body before sending the message
- Merge channels into master
- release to noi  

TODO Luc:  

- The :func:`lino_xl.lib.reception.models.create_prompt_event`
  function must emit a notification.

TO TALK:

- Add an automatic refresh of the main window when the browser window
  receives focus?

- We can now completely remove the [autorefresh] functionality.
  
  
