:date: 2016-11-24

===========================
Thursday, November 24, 2016
===========================

Notification API change
=======================

I continued to work on :ticket:`923`.
More changes in the API of the notification framework.

New choicelist :class:`lino.modlib.notify.choicelists.MailModes`.
The injected user field `notifyme_mode` is replaced by `mail_mode`


Changed :cmd:`inv initdb` to :cmd:`inv prep`
============================================

I did ticket :ticket:`1260` and renamed :cmd:`inv initdb` to :cmd:`inv
prep`.

Miscellaneous
=============

I fixed yet another case of :message:`'NoneType' object has no
attribute 'splitlines'` AttributeError in :mod:`lino.core.diff`.

:ticket:`1258` : I still cannot reproduce the problem, but now I added
an `insert_layout` to `cv.StudiesByPerson` and
`cv.ExperiencesByPerson`. Maybe the problem disappears with this
change.

I discovered how to reproduce a :message:`'VirtualField' object has no
attribute 'get_col'` AttributeError. This came because remote fields
were rendered as sortable columns, and the error happened when then a
user tried to sort on them.


Optimizations for :ref:`care`
=============================

I continued on :ticket:`1281`: Added a quicklink `[My settings]`,
changed the layout of the insert window for submitting a new ticket.
   

And another bugfix in the core: :meth:`add_instance_action
<lino.core.menus.Menu.add_instance_action>` did not work when used as
a quick link (:meth:`setup_quicklinks
<lino.core.site.Site.setup_quicklinks>`)



Permissions problem
===================

When releasing to :ref:`oikos` I had a new permissions problem. The
website reported a 500::

    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "PRJDIR/env/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/core/handlers/wsgi.py", line 158, in __call__
        self.load_middleware()
      File "PRJDIR/env/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/core/handlers/base.py", line 50, in load_middleware
        for middleware_path in settings.MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES:
      File "PRJDIR/env/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/conf/__init__.py", line 55, in __getattr__
        self._setup(name)
      File "PRJDIR/env/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/conf/__init__.py", line 43, in _setup
        self._wrapped = Settings(settings_module)
      File "PRJDIR/env/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/conf/__init__.py", line 99, in __init__
        mod = importlib.import_module(self.SETTINGS_MODULE)
      File "/usr/lib/python2.7/importlib/__init__.py", line 37, in import_module
        __import__(name)
      File "PRJDIR/settings.py", line 4, in <module>
        from lino_noi.projects.care.settings import *
      File "ENVDIR/repositories/noi/lino_noi/projects/care/settings/__init__.py", line 22, in <module>
        from lino_noi.projects.team.settings import *
      File "ENVDIR/repositories/noi/lino_noi/projects/team/settings/__init__.py", line 20, in <module>
        from lino.projects.std.settings import *
      File "ENVDIR/repositories/lino/lino/projects/std/settings.py", line 11, in <module>
        from lino.api.ad import Site, configure_plugin, _
      File "ENVDIR/repositories/lino/lino/api/ad.py", line 20, in <module>
        from lino.core.site import Site, TestSite, configure_plugin
      File "ENVDIR/repositories/lino/lino/core/site.py", line 58, in <module>
        from html2text import HTML2Text
    ImportError: No module named html2text

But when I manually activated the environment, I did not have that
problem. The problem occurred only when running as www-data. It was
because newly installed packages (using ``pip install`` as user admin)
were not group-owned www-data and not executable by other users::

  $ cd env/lib
  $ find -type d ! -perm /o=x

gave a long list of directories. Also this one::

  $ find ! -perm /o=r

I fixed it using::  
  
  $ find -type d ! -perm /o=x -exec chmod o+x '{}' +
  $ find ! -perm /o=r -exec chmod o+r '{}' +



User widgets
============
  
I started to prepare for :ticket:`1284`.
New class :class:`lino.core.permissions.UserPrefs`.
