:date: 2016-11-25

=========================
Friday, November 25, 2016
=========================

Hamza working on ExtJS 6
========================

Yesterday evening, Hamza and I had a 70 minutes Skype session about
:ticket:`1252` (Cannot edit the start_time of a clocking.Session in a
Grid panel).  We did not find a solution.  At midnight I left Hamza
alone and went to sleep.  And this morning I saw that he found the
solution only 16 minutes after our meeting! Congratulations :-)

A new Johannes for Lino Care
============================

Cool: :ref:`care` has a new actor.

Some weeks ago, Johannes and Anna (the two main actors of Lino Care)
received the visit of a young man whose name is also Johannes and who
offered his help as a volunteer for the project.  And this second
Johannes has years of experience as a web designer.

The new Johannes says that a web application in 2016 must have a
reactive and intuitive user interface.  So, of course he didn't like
Lino at first glance. Lino is optimized for people who get a few hours
of training before they start using it.

His first reaction was the plan of writing a
better front-end soon. I am not sure whether that will happen
--his motivation for the project has rather ethical than commercial
reasons-- but he will certainly bring plenty of good ideas.

Today was our second meeting, and I can already confirm that he is a
good scenario designer.

Together we discovered that the Lino Care database schema is lacking
the concept of "help offers" (i.e. when a user declares that he wants
to work on a ticket). And I guess that this concept will also be
useful in the standard Lino Noi. Continued on :doc:`1201`.
