:date: 2016-12-06

=========================
Tuesday, December 6, 2016
=========================


New workflow for :ref:`noi`
===========================

I continued to work on :ticket:`1285`. As I wrote earlier
(:doc:`1125`), my meeting with the new Johannes made us discover that
we need a new model (Vote) in :ref:`noi` in order to manage the
workflow for :ref:`care` which is somewhat more complex than in the
team version (:mod:`lino_noi.projects.team`) because there will be
more users.

**What's to do**

Now that we have the concept of votes (see :doc:`1201`), we can have
several users wanting to work on a ticket. And only one of them "gets
the job".

We need to review the general workflow.  That new workflow is
meaningful for the team version as well, so we are going to change
both at once.

The `Ticket.assigned_to` field will no longer be used. Until now this
field pointed to the user who is supposed to work on that ticket. This
information is now stored in the votes of that ticket.

Migration will probably be a bit tricky, but Lino will manage it.

**New states of tickets and votes:**

- A **Vote** (Angebot) can have the following states:
  
  - *watching* (Interesse) : I want to get notified about changes
    in this ticket (but I won't work on it myself).
  - *candidate* (Angebot) : I offer my help and am ready to take
    responsibility.
  - *assigned* (Zugewiesen) : I have been assigned responsibility and am
    supposed to work on that ticket
  - *ready* (bereit) : I think that my job has been done
  - *done* (erledigt) : The ticket author has confirmed that my job is
    done

- A **ticket** (Bitte) can have the following states:
  
  - new (Neu) : the reporter is still formulating the
    ticket. Not all required data has been entered.
  - opened (Offen) : ticket is waiting for help offers
  - active (Aktiv) : All helpers have been assigned and can start
    working. No further help offers wanted.
  - closed (Abgeschlossen) : all help offers are done
  - sticky (Permanent) : similar to `opened` and `active`, but knowing
    that the ticket will never close. Stick tickets don't show in the
    tasks list.
    
**New views** to show in the dashboard:

- MyOfferedVotes (Meine Aufgaben) : list my votes which need my
  attention. help offers
  
- MyRequestedVotes (Meine Anfragen) : list of votes (of other users) on my
  tickets which need my attention.
  
**Life cycle of a ticket and its votes**

1. Create a ticket. When all required data has been entered, the
   ticket can move to state "open".
2. One or more other users offer their help by creating a Vote
   instance on that ticket.
3. Ticket author accepts one or several help offers. Lino notifies
   these users and they see the ticket in their tasks list.
4. When the actual work is done, the helper sets its vote to
   "ready". Lino notifies the ticket author.
5. The ticket author rates the vote and puts the ticket to "closed".

**Difference between author and reporter**

There will be a new field `user`, similar to `reporter`.  All existing
tickets will be migrated to have both fields with the same value
(i.e. `user` gets the value of `reporter` for every existing ticket).
This is because we must differentiate between the *author* and the
*reporter* on tickets whose original reporter is not a system user. In
that case the `reporter` will point to the external user while the
`user` is the user who entered the ticket.

**Migration notes**

- for tickets with non-empty assigned_to field : create a vote whose
  state depends o the ticket state.


dist-upgrade on :ref:`lf`
=========================

Today we upgraded :ref:`lf` from 7 to 8 (wheezy to jessie).

Some errors encountered::
  
    [....] Restarting web server: apache2AH02559: The SSLCertificateChainFile directive (/etc/apache2/sites-enabled/default-ssl.conf:39) is deprecated, SSLCertificateFile should be used instead

    Errors were encountered while processing:
     libjson0:amd64
    E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)

This one is still open::  

    $ python -m datetime
    /usr/local/pythonenv/demo/bin/python: No module named datetime

(I guess that we must re-create a virtualenv)


Window actions from dashboard
=============================

Uncaught TypeError: this.containing_panel.get_current_record is not a function
