:date: 2016-12-22

===========================
Thursday, December 22, 2016
===========================

Lino Welfare
============

Release in :ref:`welcht`, mainly for :ticket:`1310`. But
e.g. :ticket:`1302` got done as well.

In :mod:`atelier.invlib.task` I removed two lines which had been added
by the futurize script.

In :ref:`welfare` is a new version of the Lino Tutorial in French,
written by Mathieu.

The checkers defined in :mod:`lino_xl.cal.models` (not only our new
checker `LongEventChecker`) did not attribute the problem to the
event's owner but to
:attr:`lino.modlib.plausibility.Plugin.responsible_user`.

I also reviewed the verbose names of thes checkers and their
translations to French.

I fixed a bug in :mod:`lino.modlib.notif` : the slave summary of
`MyMessages` did not filter out seen messages.

Then for :ticket:`1302` I added a new attribute
:attr:`StatisticalField.short_name
<lino_welfare.modlib.esf.choicelists.StatisticalField>` .

I changed the `verbose_name` of the
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.cal.models.Event` model from "Event" to "Calendar
entry".

Lino Care
=========

I continued to work on :ticket:`1315`.

I did some optimizations in :ref:`noi`.

For example ticket actions are no longer subclasses of
`NotifyingAction`. The `NotifyingAction` approach should probably get
deprecated. Maybe rather `CommentingAction` (i.e. an action which
optionally writes a comment).

I did a release to :ref:`lf` in order to test these changes in
:ref:`noi` (before bugging the :ref:`care` people with unfinished
things).

I removed `after_ui_create` as its functionally the same as
:meth:`after_ui_save` with `cw` set to `None`. I'd even beg (but
didn't verify) that in households and/or events this caused even a
second, useless call to `fill_members` or `fill_guests`.

I understood that when sending unseen notification message by mail, we
never want this to happen individually for every notification.
Actually, even when the user wants to get notified "immediately", this
means some realistic lapse of time (currently it is not even
configurable- it is every 10 seconds and basta). So
`MailModes.immediately` is no longer used, its function is replaced by
`MailModes.often`. Existing production sites should switch manually.

The `mail_mode` is now also stored per message and per vote. Users can
now select per plea how they want to get their email notifications.

