:date: 2016-12-31

===========================
Saturday, December 31, 2016
===========================

I continued on :ticket:`1307`.

New attribute :attr:`lino.modlib.users.Plugin.online_registration`.

I removed the :attr:`anonymous_user_type` attribute of
:class:`lino.core.site.Site` whose need was quite obscure. The new
rule is that on a site without :attr:`user_types_module
<lino.core.site.Site.user_types_module>` the `profile` of
`AnonymousUser` is `None` and "everything is permitted".

I removed an unused module named :mod:`choicelists` in
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.polls`.

About the :class:`SendWelcomeMail
<lino.modlib.users.actions.SendWelcomeMail>` action. Until recently
this action had no dialog window at all. Clicking on the button simply
sent an email without any confirmation. This was suboptimal. Now it
has a parameter window which asks for the email address and the
subject (and which is a confirmation dialog).

I tried to also put the body of the welcome mail into that window,
but (1) Lino does not yet correctly fill the default value into rich
text fields of an action dialog: HTML markup gets escaped, which is
not what we would want here, and (2) I realized that this would be a
quite useless thing because system administrators won't start to write
welcome messages.  The only reason for having a dialog window instead
of a simple Yes/No confirmation is that they can give their own email
address in order to test whether the mail works well.

TODO:

- Put useful content into the :xfile:`users/welcome_email.html`
  template.

- The :class:`VerifyUser <lino_noi.lib.users.models.VerifyUser>`
  action doesn't yet work.
  
- When there is an "Actions" column, then all row actions should be
  there. Currently we have send_welcome_mail in the actions column but
  change_password and verify in the toolbar...

A mysterious problem
====================

Grigory reported :ticket:`1323` on his machine.
I tried to reproduce it on my machine, without success.

I created a new virgin virtual environment and activated it.
Then I ran the following script::

    #!/bin/bash

    set -e  # exit on error

    pip install -e atelier
    pip install -e lino
    pip install -e xl
    pip install -e noi
    pip install -e cosi
    pip install -e presto
    pip install -e welfare
    pip install -e voga
    pip install -e book

Then I ran the complete test suite of Lino Welfare::

  $ go welfare
  $ inv prep test

No error.
So I am still unable to reproduce the problem.

I tried to add the following line to the :xfile:`requirements.txt`
file (as in book... I don't remember why it is there) ::
  
  -e git+https://github.com/eliben/pycparser@release_v2.14#egg=pycparser

A last possibility is that some system package needs to be
installed. Some package which would be installed on my machine and not
on the travis machine.

The explanation is difficult to find because the error messages
(:message:`Failed to save SiteConfig #1 ('Site-Parameter')` and the
ValidationError traceback) are only consequences of some earlier
problem.

I leave this open and hope for new ideas next year.



