:date: 2017-01-01

=======================
Sunday, January 1, 2017
=======================

The action for verifying a new user request did not yet work at all.

This action is a list action with a parameter dialog.

It must be executable by anonymous since the user account is
not yet active.

And it must be invokeable using a permalink of type
http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/users/Register?an=verify

Unfortunately this (until now) showed the login window, despite the
fact that :class:`users.Register` actor does not require
authentication. That was because in :xfile:`extjs/index.html` we have
this::

        {# anonymous request using permalink: forward request.path as "on_login" URL #}
        {%- if settings.SITE.user_model and not request.user.authenticated and on_ready -%}
            {%- set on_ready = "Lino.show_login_window(" + py2js(request.path) + ")" -%}
        {%- endif -%}

This feature is needed in order to make permalinks work also when the
user needs to reconnect.

I added `and not settings.SITE.plugins.users.online_registration` to
the ``if`` condition.  That's of course just a cheating workaround
because it disables the permalink login feature on sites with online
registration.

And that wasn't not all. The next challenge was that I got a
:message:`Sorry, dialog action without base_params.mk` error when
trying to submit that dialog. Because this was the first dialog action
which does not require a current row. I fixed this by a little change
in :xfile:`linoweb.js` which needs to be ported to extjs6 as well.

TODO: verify per email? or per username? or per internal id?

Change the submit_insert per table, not per model
=================================================

After submitting the insert window of users.Register, users should get
a message "Your registration has been submitted. You should now check
your inbox and verify."

We have several cases of customized submit_insert actions.

Until now it was enough to define them per model.

It seems that now we want to do this per table as well.

