:date: 2017-01-06

==================================
20170106 (Friday, 06 January 2017)
==================================

Yesterday I had a first Hangouts session with :ref:`tonis`, a cute
young man in Tallinn who is maybe going to work for us.

The :class:`MarkTicketClosed
<lino_noi.lib.noi.workflows.MarkTicketClosed>` action is now allowed
when a ticket is `ready`:

- 2017-01-06 02:39 : `lino_noi <http://noi.lino-framework.org>`__
  `5aae53c <https://github.com/lino-framework/noi/commit/2493a775db8b8a8e98bdcf2cd10fe821c5aae53c>`__ adapt doctest

- 2017-01-06 03:08 : `lino_noi <http://noi.lino-framework.org>`__
  `57b9bf7 <https://github.com/lino-framework/noi/commit/cd248d22774faf2c73fd4d2001e30abbf57b9bf7>`__ ticket transition ready to closed



I fixed :ticket:`1356`.  The demo site was failing (showing an empty
page) and the following error message in the console::

  GET http://demo1.lino-framework.org/media/cache/js/lino_en-us.js 404 (Not Found)

The reason was server-side configuration. The config for this example
is a bit tricky since I try to do as little local modifications as
possible. The problem had to do with how Lino sets the default value
for :setting:`MEDIA_ROOT`. I repeatedly ran the following::

    cd /home/luc/mypy/demo_sites/demo1
    $ python manage.py shell
    >>> from django.conf import settings; print(settings.MEDIA_ROOT)
    Path('/home/luc/mypy/demo_sites/mysite/media')

  
I observed that :meth:`get_notify_message
<lino.modlib.notify.mixins.ChangeObservable.get_notify_message>`
should be called *in the language of the recipient* and fixed this on
the spot:

- 2017-01-06 04:14 : `lino <http://www.lino-framework.org>`__
  `d834bfd <https://github.com/lino-framework/lino/commit/762d3e4905a97e7626307820f2018f859d834bfd>`__ notification message in language of recipient

- 2017-01-06 04:14 : `lino_welfare <http://welfare.lino-framework.org>`__
  `7ca1cb7 <https://github.com/lino-framework/welfare/commit/8da854ee984c7ada9e28f4c71640755827ca1cb7>`__ notification message in language of recipient


I merged Hamza's work on ExtJS 6:

- 2017-01-06 03:44 : `lino_extjs6 <http://www.lino-framework.org>`__
  `5f0458f <https://github.com/lino-framework/extjs6/commit/4d63b9e5e8d53b566d66a32c44b0545b15f0458f>`__ Merge pull request #70 from khchine5/master
  
  Fix all "Please wait" messages #1340






Optimizations in tickets and votes
==================================

I did a series of miscellaneous changes mostly for :ticket:`1285` but
with other tickets in the back of my mind.

The column layout of the `MyVotes` and `MyOffers` tables
(:mod:`lino_noi.lib.votes`) were suboptimal.  I removed the
:class:`VoteViews` choicelist because it was nonsense.

The "Author" of a vote is now called the "Voter".  But how to
translate "Votable" to German?

We now differentiate more visible between *Author* and *Reporter* of a
ticket. They can differ when a connector user (e.g. a helpdesk
operator) records a ticket in behalf of another user.

I removed the :class:`lino.modlib.users.mixins.ByUser` mixin and
replaced all usages by :class:`My <lino.modlib.users.mixins.My>`.
For example in :mod:`lino.modlib.comments`, 
:mod:`lino.modlib.tinymce`,
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.notes`,
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.polls`,
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.projects`,
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.stars`,
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.postings` and others.

I removed the :attr:`author_field_name` attribute :class:`UserAuthored
<lino.modlib.users.mixins.UserAuthored>` because it was not used
anymore and because it was a rather hackerish thing.
       
It is probable that this has unexpected side effects in places which
are not covered by the test suites.  One side-effect (which seems
positive) is that :class:`pcsw.Coaching
<lino_welfare.modlib.pcsw.coaching.Coaching>` is now a
:class:`UserAuthored <lino.modlib.users.mixins.UserAuthored>` instead
of defining itself a :attr:`user` field.

I also stumbled over the explanation for a series of error messages
which I had been receiving occasionally from :ref:`welfare` production
servers::

    AjaxExceptionResponse
    TypeError: 'NoneType' object has no attribute '__getitem__'
    in request PUT /api/humanlinks/LinksByHuman/2563
    
These errors came because
:meth:`lino_xl.lib.humanlinks.LinksByHuman.get_request_queryset`
returned `None` (instead of an empty queryset) when there was no
master instance.  :ref:`welfare.specs.households` now covers that
particular case.  :meth:`lino.core.tablerequest.TableRequest.execute`
now raises a clear error message ("No data iterator for {actor_name}")
if similar situations would occur.

I wrote a new utility function :func:`lino.core.utils.lazy_format`.
