:date: 2017-01-07

====================================
20170107 (Saturday, 07 January 2017)
====================================

I read `"Weapons of Math Destruction" by Cathy O'Neil
<http://pyfound.blogspot.com.ee/2017/01/weapons-of-math-destruction-by-cathy.html>`__
and started a new document :doc:`/topics/ck`.

I wrote comments in :ticket:`1333` and :ticket:`932`.

I am in the final sprint before deploying a new version to
:ref:`oikos` in order to show them my work of the last weeks.

     
Move My Notification messages to the end of the dashboard
=========================================================

The "My Notification messages" table is now by default at the *end* of
the dashboard. This change had a few positive side effects:
  
- I renamed :meth:`get_admin_main_items` to
  :meth:`get_dashboard_items`

- I added a :meth:`get_dashboard_items
  <lino.core.plugin.Plugin.get_dashboard_items>` to the
  :class:`Plugin` class, and :ref:`noi` uses this new feature, it no
  longer defines its dashboard items per Site but delegates this to
  the installed plugins.

  

Hamza's first tutorial
======================

Hamza wrote a tutorial `Discovering Lino using your debugger
<https://github.com/lino-framework/book/raw/master/docs/dev/discovering_lino_using_your_debugger.pdf>`__.

I added a reference to it to the :ref:`Developer's Guide <lino.dev>`.

I had asked Hamza to put the document to :file:`docs/dl/dev`, but
that's not necessary, the links can get directly to the raw files on
GitHub.

The tutorial is written in LibreOffice, not in Sphinx. This has
advantages and disadvantages:

- WYSIWYG makes authoring more productive when there are many
  screenshots. If I had asked Hamza to write it in Sphinx, then he
  would probably still be working on it ;-)
  
- A printable pdf document is a coherent unit of knowledge. The reader
  does not feel lost in the middle of a huge web site which never
  seems to end.
  
- Cannot run automatic tests inside the document.
- If one day we would generate a real book from the Lino website, this
  tutorial would need special treatment.

More optimizations in tickets & votes
=====================================

