:date: 2017-01-25

===========================
Wednesday, January 25, 2017
===========================

Upgrade on :ref:`eiche`
=======================

A quick routine upgrade which required a snapshot & restore, but no
explicit data migration.

I used the following a trick for checking whether the database needs
migration or not:

- Make a snapshot::
  
      $ ./make_snapshot.sh
  
- Update the code repositories::
    
      $ ./pull.sh
  
- run :manage:`dump2py` into a temporary directory::

      $ python manage.py dump2py -o t 

- If there is an error (e.g. today I had a :message:`OperationalError:
  (1054, "Unknown column 'cal_eventtype.max_days' in 'field list'")`,
  then you need to :manage:`run` the :xfile:`restore.py` of your
  snapshot::

      $ python manage.py run snapshot/restore.py

I quickly fixed :ticket:`1422` *en passant* (or at least one part of
the request: the `free_places` column is now an IntegerField and
therefore right-aligned)


Moving translations from one package to another
================================================

I did :cmd:`inv mm` in every project and ran the test suite once more,
and it seems that the translations have correctly been moved from
welfare to xl (after :ticket:`1421`).

When you move some code from one package to another (e.g. from `a` to
`b`) :

- run :cmd:`inv mm` in both projects before starting
  
- Move the code. Get it more or less running, but don't worry for the
  test suite.
  
- With your editor, manually copy the content of the
  :xfile:`django.po` file of every language from project `a` and paste
  it to the end of its equivalent file in `b`. Do not copy the header
  fields.

- run :cmd:`inv mm` again in both projects
  

Preparing a demo on Thursday
============================

Gerd and Mathieu will give a demo of :ref:`welfare` on Thursday. I did
a last upgrade of the online demos.

- The symbol used by :meth:`ActorItem.render
  <lino.core.dashboard.ActorItem.render>` for representing the button
  which opens a dashboard item in its own window is no longer 🗗 but
  ⍐. The problem with the former was that it is not yet supported on
  many browsers.


More Avanti
===========

I continued to work on the :ref:`avanti` prototype (:ticket:`1400`).

The :mod:`households <lino_xl.lib.households>` module has a cool
feature: you can enter members by either (1) selecting an existing
client or (2) manually entering their names, birth date and sex.  And
when you enter all four manual fields (first name, last name, birth
date and sex) for a member, then Lino automatically creates a client
for that member and links them.

This feature is probably important for :ref:`avanti`.  I think that
Johanna will want the :mod:`humanlinks <lino_xl.lib.humanlinks>` and
:mod:`households <lino_xl.lib.households>` modules (although their
first reaction in our meeting was different).

I now realized that this feature was only in the :ref:`welfare`
version. So I moved it to :mod:`lino_xl` and left only some really
PCSW-specific things in :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.hourseholds`.


This change caused an interesting failure in
:ref:`lino.specs.households`. That was because household memberships
automatically create human links when necessary, and new households
are automatically populated from the children of the head of
households and her or his partner.

