:date: 2017-01-31

=========================
Tuesday, January 31, 2017
=========================

I worked on :ticket:`1442`.  A first problem was that the actions
didn't even become visible. It took me one hour to understand that my
new idea of having multiple roles per UserType does not work as I
expected.

Bruno tested on the production site, and thanks to this I fixed quite
some problems which occured after reading an eid card. I cannot
currently test these things from my machine because it seems that my
card reader doesn't work with Belgian cards.

One of the problems was a :message:`TypeError: 'birth_place' is an
invalid keyword argument for this function`.

This was because `contacts.Person` also inherited from
:class:`BeIdCardHolder <lino_xl.lib.beid.mixins.BeIdCardHolder>` (just
because when I wrote this I believed that they will manage only
clients and no normal persons).  And
:func:`lino.core.utils.models_by_base` seems to not work as expected
when the `toplevel_only` option is `True`. I'd have expected it to
raise a warning when it finds more than one models implementing
:class:`BeIdCardHolder <lino_xl.lib.beid.mixins.BeIdCardHolder>`...
Not urgent.  But now :attr:`lino_xl.xl.lib.beid.Plugin.holder_model`
contains :class:`lino_avanti.lib.avanti.models.Client`. That's what I
expect it to be.

The `birth_place` field must indeed be in :class:`BeIdCardHolder
<lino_xl.lib.beid.mixins.BeIdCardHolder>`, not in every implementing
class.

Several similar trivial problems.

I renamed `UserType.roles` to `UserTypes.role`. En passant I also now
differentiate roles modules from user_types modules.

