:date: 2017-02-02

==========================
Thursday, February 2, 2017
==========================

In a hangouts session with :ref:`tonis` we observed a funny test
failure in :ref:`noi.specs.tickets`. The :func:`py2rst
<lino.utils.diag.py2rst>` in "The detail layout of a ticket" printed a
nearly empty string. And I had been working on the permissions system
yesterday! So it was obviously caused by these changes!

But (after some debugging) it turned out that the reason was much
simpler: this morning I had temporarily changed :attr:`default_ui
<lino.core.site.Site.default_ui>` in
:mod:`lino_noi.projects.team.settings.demo` from its default
(:mod:`lino.modlib.extjs`) to :mod:`lino_extjs.extjs6` in order to
test Hamza's work...  And :func:`py2rst <lino.utils.diag.py2rst>`
doesn't yet work in this case.  I recorded this as :ticket:`1459`.
This is related to :ticket:`951`.
    
I also realized that the page about :ref:`dev.permissions` is
important.  I reviewed it and moved it from the "Drafts" section to
the "Design chocies" section.

Monique reported :ticket:`1458`, which turned out to be a real subtle
bug in how Lino computes whether there are still available places in a
course. That computation can be complex in long-running courses where
participants come and go. I wrote a test case to cover it:
:mod:`lino_voga.projects.roger.tests.test_max_places`.

I did a deploy on :ref:`eiche` because Monique wants to write her
invoice and because I wanted to see whether my explanation was correct
(it was).
