:date: 2017-02-10

=========================
Friday, February 10, 2017
=========================

I did an upgrade in :ref:`cpaschatelet`, mostly for :ticket:`1475`.  But
before doing this, I fixed :ticket:`1473`. In Chatelet the reception
clerks have user type 220 while in Eupen they have 200. That's because
the two centres have different distribution of responsibilities.


I noted that :ref:`logos` is a application which used *two*
commentable models (users could post comments per *edition* or per
*verse* of a translation). But I removed that CommentsByRFC from
Editions.detail_layout. This application was just a proof of concept
and nobody uses it.

There was a follow-up of :ticket:`1473`.
:mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.welfare.user_types` was no longer importable
by Sphinx. Sphinx doesn't report such problems very clearly, I have to
import it myself::

    $ export DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=lino_welfare.projects.std.settings.doctests
    $ python -m lino_welfare.modlib.welfare.user_types

    Traceback (most recent call last):
    ...
    django.core.exceptions.AppRegistryNotReady: Apps aren't loaded yet.
  
I removed the deprecated aliases for
:func:`lino.core.roles.login_required` (`dd.Required` and
`dd.required`) and replaced all usages by `dd.login_required`. (Yes,
dd.required was handy because it was less to type, but "required"
alone simply makes no sense...). I did this also because I believed
that it would work around the problem. But nope.

I moved some code from :func:`atelier.sphinxconf.configure` to a new
function :func:`lino.sphinxcontrib.configure` because Atelier should
not depend on Lino.


It turned out that the users in Chatelet had been using quite much
those emails sent by the old and forgotten :attr:`on_ui_updated
<lino.core.signals.on_ui_updated>` handler. They are glad that now
they obey the general notifications rules, but they would like to have
the content optimized. That's why I added a :meth:`get_change_info`
method and an obj2memo handler for [client 123] and [note 123]. Which
I did by generalizing some code and moving it from `lino_noi` to
:meth:`lino.modlib.memo.parser.Parser.register_django_model`.

I ran :command:`pp inv mm` and then all the tests again, in order to
make sure whether translations are still good.
