:date: 2017-02-13

=========================
Monday, February 13, 2017
=========================

I did :ticket:`1290` : new table
:class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.ui.cal.MyOverdueAppointments` (and a menu
command and dashboard item pointing to it).  The most time-consuming
here was that I also changed the demo appointments generated by
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.cal.fixtures.demo2` so that we have some data to see
in the new table.

:ref:`james` asked a question `ImportError: No module names
atelier.fablib with Lino Developer Blog
<https://stackoverflow.com/questions/42152294/importerror-no-module-names-atelier-fablib-with-lino-developer-blog>`__
on StackOverflow, and there was no possible excuse: I had to
acknowledge that I am guilty.  Actually it is even worse: he asked
this question already on Friday, and I found only now the time to have
a look at it...  But now I finally updated the `dblog
<https://github.com/lsaffre/dblog>`_ project. I also reviewed
:ref:`devblog`.

Monique explained me that a Secretary should have permission to reopen
and change a bank statement or invoice which has been entered by
Monique. But of course we do not want a Secretary to access system
configuration. So I added a new user role :class:`VoucherSupervisor
<lino_xl.lib.ledger.roles.VoucherSupervisor>`.  :ticket:`1485`.

Roger asked for :ticket:`1486`. This is telepathy :-) I did that last
week for :ref:`avanti`, and now they want it in :ref:`voga` as well.
Actually is not real telepathy because Roger and I had been talking
about this possibility a long time ago. But it is a funny coincidence
that Roger just now asked for it after months of silence.

Valentin started to install :ref:`welfare`.  I reviewed and updated
the installation instructions at `welfare.install` (page has been
removed :blogref:`20181031`).
