:date: 2017-02-16

===========================
Thursday, February 16, 2017
===========================

Repairing failures on Travis
============================

Tonis and I released :ref:`atelier` 1.0.5. Mainly for some subtle
issues with Python 3 which caused failures on Travis.

Tonis asked me whether I can see an explanation for the `failing voga
build 78
<https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/voga/builds/201405300>`__.
Indeed a surprising effect. It looks as if the numbering of some
invoices were different on Travis than on my machine.

We added a list of all invoices to the :ref:`voga.specs.trading`
document which lead to `build 79 on travis
<https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/voga/builds/202331998>`_ This is
where Tonis had to leave.

Looking at this failure made me guess a probable reason for this
failure:
:meth:`lino_voga.lib.courses.models.Enrolment.get_invoiceables_for_plan`
(i.e. the :meth:`get_invoiceables_for_plan
<lino_xl.lib.invoicing.mixins.get_invoiceables_for_plan>`
implementation of an :class:`Enrolment
<lino_voga.lib.courses.models.Enrolment>`) sorted the suggestions only
by date. And the demo data has cases with more than one suggestion on
a same day, so the ordering was unpredictable in these cases.  So I
was exited after the `commit
<https://github.com/lino-framework/voga/commit/97782e8f054384a2231b629f1c6af9d96c5eb7f1>`__
(that's one of the psychological challenges when fixing a failing
travis build: you need to wait more than a minute before seeing the
result.  But after 5 min 17 sec: `yes!
<https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/voga/builds/202353035>`__

I can imagine that Tonis had no chance of finding this because he
knows not enough about what Voga does.

Maybe we should organize a Vigala Code Camp : a whole day just for an
in-depth Lino Voga *end-user* training. I would also invite Jüri and
maybe some non-programmers who might be interested in Voga.


Some subtle documentation issues
======================================

There was at least one circular references in our doctrees: `book`
referred to some project doctrees (`presto`, `extjs`), but `cosi`
referred to `book`. Should :ref:`book` be able to refer to
:ref:`cosi`?  Or rather the other way round?  I think the latter.

Note that this blog "knows" all projects, can refer to them. That's
why it must build last.

Code change: :func:`rstgen.sphinxconf.interproject.configure` now has
a new optional parameter `prjspec`. This is used by `book` because we
want it to intersphinx only to atelier.
