:date: 2017-02-20

=========================
Monday, February 20, 2017
=========================

Moved saffre-rumma.net to a new server
======================================

Uff, I moved `bugs` (the read-only view to our ticketing database)
from lino-framework.org to saffre-rumma.net.  This was another part of
:ticket:`1271`.

The "only" problem here was that yesterday (with Hamza) I tried it and
discovered that we probably do need to return to the system with
lino_local.setup(). We cannot have every site run with the same
DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE 'settings' because bugs wants to import the
settings of jane.

I started a new document :ref:`hosting.setup` (which is fare from
being finished).

I changed the :file:`conf.py` in the doctrees of all projects.


A central bash log
==================


A think that we should have a "central bash log" where we can see
every command issued in a shell, with user and timestamp.

The discussion under `How to save terminal history manually?
<http://askubuntu.com/questions/261407/how-to-save-terminal-history-manually>`__
is interesting, but not a solution for us.

Bash 4.1 has a compile-time configuration option to enable logging all
commands through syslog(3). (found `here
<http://mywiki.wooledge.org/BashFAQ/077>`__), but I don't see how to
"activate" it for our server. I have never compiled a system command.

`Here
<http://backdrift.org/logging-bash-history-to-syslog-using-traps>`__ a
trick that might work::

    # copied from 
    function log2syslog
    {
       declare COMMAND
       COMMAND=$(fc -ln -0)
       logger -p local1.notice -t bash -i -- "${USER}:${COMMAND}"
    }
    trap log2syslog DEBUG


Headless libreoffice failing
============================
  
We still have the problem that the headless libreoffice fails (i.e. we
cannot print to pdf, it says "PodError: An error occurred during the
conversion. Could not connect to LibreOffice on port 8100. UNO
(LibreOffice API) says: Connector : couldn't connect to socket
(Success)."

Supervisor reports with this error message at startup::
  
    [Java framework] Error in function createSettingsDocument (elements.cxx).
    javaldx failed!
    Warning: failed to read path from javaldx

I checked whether java is installed::

    $ java -version
    java version "1.7.0_121"
    OpenJDK Runtime Environment (IcedTea 2.6.8) (7u121-2.6.8-2~deb8u1)
    OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (build 24.121-b00, mixed mode)

I read somewhere that the www-data user must own :file:`~/.config` and
everything in it.  The home dir of `www-data` is :file:`/var/www`::

  $ grep www-data /etc/passwd

  $ sudo find / -type d -name .config

And that directory is indeed not writable for www-data. But that's
normal, and it should be unsecure to make it writable for www-data. On
our other sites it is the same, so I don't think that this would be a
solution.



The two agreements
==================

Uff! After a consultation with Bruno and Thomas, I started to write a
Maintenance SLA template, which also brought a series of changes to to
Hosting SLA template. I start to be satisfied:

- http://saffre-rumma.net/dl/Lino_Maintenance_SLA.pdf
- http://saffre-rumma.net/dl/Lino_Hosting_SLA.pdf

Miscellaneous
=============

I received an error message from :ref:`cpaschatelet`, reproduced it and
wrote a test case in :ref:`welfare.specs.coachings`.  :ticket:`1508` :

I maybe fixed another error from :ref:`cpaschatelet`, a DjangoUnicodeError
which was very probably caused because I had the following code in
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.cal`::

        elif self.event_type:
            s = str(self.event_type)

but had fogotten to add ``from builtins import str``. :ticket:`1510`.


Upgrade on jane
===============

I did a deploy on jane and then discovered that Tonis's changes aren't
yet merged into master (so we cannot see them in action yet). And also
the test suite is broken due to several changes of last week. That's
for tomorrow.
