:date: 2017-02-28

==========================
Tuesday, February 28, 2017
==========================

An urgent upgrade for Roger
===========================

I finished two urgent tickets :ticket:`780` and :ticket:`1428` and
then deployed to :ref:`eiche`.  :ticket:`780` required a few new user
role definitions.  :ticket:`1428` required a new virtual field
:attr:`trying <lino_xl.lib.courses.models.Course.trying>` on a course.

After upgrading on the server Lino reported :message:`Exception:
<class 'lino_voga.lib.trading.models.InvoiceItem'> has bleached fields
but `bleach` is not installed.`.  Oops, aha, so
:mod:`lino.utils.bleached` *is* being used in :ref:`voga`, I had
forgotten that. Maybe we would have done more testing if we had known
that.  But don't worry, they almost never write anything themselves in
the descriptions of their invoice items.

Of course I had to update bleach as described on :doc:`0225`,

And then I still had the problem under Apache and not when running on
the command line::

    $ python
    Python 2.7.9 (default, Mar  1 2015, 12:57:24) 
    [GCC 4.9.2] on linux2
    Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
    >>> import bleach

This was caused by a missing `python-path` spec in their
`WSGIDaemonProcess` directive.

I did a few optimization for :ticket:`1513` in :mod:`lino.core.auth`:
The user message should state clearly that authentication is failing
because the IP has been blacklisted. Unfortunately this is not
trivial, so I abandoned for today. At least users now get an "Ajax
communication failed", and Lino logs a PermissionDenied when it
happens.



Writing service reports in Lino Noi
===================================

The idea of :ticket:`1526` is that we can throw away what we currently
call service reports, and then we implement them correctly using
:class:`Invoiceable <lino_xl.lib.invoicing.mixins.Invoiceable>`.

First code changes are in a branch named `invoiceable_clocking_Session`.

It also caused a few optimizations in :ref:`cosi`.

A review of authenticate
========================

Tonis and I had a hangout where we accidentally started to write a new
plugin :mod:`lino.modlib.ipdict`.
     
