:date: 2017-03-01

========================
Wednesday, March 1, 2017
========================

I changed how Lino implements the
:attr:`lino.modlib.users.models.User.partner` field because the old
implementation didn't work when :class:`users.User` inherits from
:class:`contacts.Person` (in which case it must be a DummyField even
though `contacts` is installed)

I will probably abandon the `invoiceable_clocking_Session` branch
because I realized that even when I implement service reports as
:class:`Invoiceable <lino_xl.lib.invoicing.mixins.Invoiceable>` this
won't be the solution for my problem.  My problem (:ticket:`1526`) is
that I must write at least few invoices based on service reports, and
that I am myself still discovering how to do it.

So maybe the existing service reports aren't that bad.  But I must to
an upgrade to Jane because the currently running version does not show
the partners and their interests.

release@jane
============

I did the release (i.e. the upgrade on jane after my series of
fundamental changes). This was a rather feared one because of the
database migration. But everything seems okay. Just a few surprises
after the upgrade:

- A UnicodeDecodeError in file "lino/modlib/comments/ui.py", line 133,
  in as_li::
    
    UnicodeDecodeError: 'ascii' codec can't decode byte 0xc3 in position 39: ordinal not in range(128)

- Added SkillsByDemander to ticket detail layout.
  
The biggest problem now is maybe just that I cannot print anything
usable because of :ticket:`1533`.

Maybe it is easier to get the Duration field summable in export_excel?

I finally decided to work on the ServiceReport. The most important was
how it selects the tickets to include. Until now it was based on the
partners interests, but this approach seems not usable. We must just
assign Project.company and basta.


Releases @oikos and @vilma
==========================

I knew that the data migrations would not work out of the box, so I
decided to upgrade also the other production sites which use Noi.

The basic problem with data migrations à la Lino is that they are per
application and not per plugin. When I do a database change in
:mod:`lino.modlib.users` (for example), then I must write one migrator
for every application which uses this plugin.

