:date: 2017-03-03

=====================
Friday, March 3, 2017
=====================

Lino Care
=========

I added a table :class:`lino_noi.lib.faculties.ui.OffersByDemander`
and did some minor optimizations (e.g. TopLevelSkills) for
:ticket:`1540`.

I committed everything, including my yesterday's half-done work for
:ticket:`1492` (Avanti), and did a quick release to vilma.

Publishing code changes without first verifying whether all test
suites are passing might seem questionnable, but sometimes it is more
efficient to use this approach. Namely when the customer wants quick
releases, and when reliability is not yet a priority.  That's why we
need :ticket:`1524`. And now I have the feeling that `master` should
really be for active development branch (the equivalent of unstable or
testing) while one common branch named "stable" should represent the
latest stable version.

Welfare
=======

I saw Aurélie's feedback on :ticket:`1518`, saw that she is absolutely
right, modified the code and did a quick manual test. Seems to
work. We should write a unit test for this, but there are some many
things that we should do...


Avanti
======

I continued to work on my to-do list for :ticket:`1492`.

Side effects:

- New method :meth:`lino.mixins.Contactable.get_as_user`

- New table :class:`lino_xl.lib.xl.cal.models.EventPolicy`

- Optimized the API of :class:`EventGenerator`.


DONE:

- Benutzer verpflichten können, ihr Passwort zu ändern: interessant,
  aber für Avanti momentan nicht nötig.
- Fehlermeldung nach Eingabe Coaching HB (was war das?)

- 3 Dienste in Demo-Datenbank anlegen

- Cancelled: Make Partner inherit from `UserAuthored`, and add a
  checker to verify whether `Client.user` is the current primary
  coach.
  
- Kommentare nicht öffentlich zeigen.
  
- Neue Benutzerart "Auditor" (Janina) : kann alles außer ganz private
  Daten sehen aber nichts ändern.

- New user type "Coordinator" ("Kurskoordinator") has permission to
  edit calendar events of everybody without seeing contact data of
  participants.
  
- Es gibt zwei Grade von Privatdaten : (a) z.B. Kursleiter sollen nur
  die Namen ihrer Teilnehmer sehen, aber nicht mehr, und natürlich
  auch keine Liste der anderen Klienten. (b) Bemerkungen, Notizen,
  Anfragen des Klienten sind nur für Benutzer mit Schweigepflicht
  sichtbar. Selbst der Auditor will die nicht sehen.

- Use the Voga StatusReport also for Avanti
  
- Bilanzgespräche alle 3 Monate : Termine automatisch generieren.
  
- Kommentare so umbauen, dass sie nicht pro Ticket sondern pro Klient
  (anstelle der Notizen) stehen. Neues Feld `CommentType`
  (z.B. Telefongespräch, ...)
  
- Wenn es keinen Benutzer gibt, der auf den Kursleiter zeigt, dann
  muss der Kursverwalter zum Terminverantwortlichen werden.

- Die Anfragen sind eigentlich nur eine Liste der Themen, über die der
  Sozi mit dem Klienten reden will.
  
- Primärbegleiter : Lino zeigt nur die Nummer
  
- params_panel default hidden for Clients
  
- ClientContactsByOrganisation
  
TODO:  
  
- Statt nur einen Link "Write Comment" pro CommentType ein Link.
  
- Neues Feld "Aufenthaltstitel" pro Klient
  
- Remove field `Event.assigned_to`
- Remove field `Course.end_date`
- Remove fields `Course.every_unit` and `Course.every`
- Remove `num_places` from `Enrolments.insert_layout`
  
- CoachingTypes : drei überflüssige Felder rausholen
  
  

