:date: 2017-03-06

=====================
Monday, March 6, 2017
=====================

I committed some translations for Avanti (I closed :ticket:`1492` and
opened :ticket:`1547` because I consider every customer meeting a
separate milestone).

Scrum
=====

This week-end Ott told me interesting stories about how they (`RIA
<https://github.com/ria-ee>`_) use the *Scrum* framework (or
methodology) for organizing their development process.  I now read the
`Wikipedia article about Scrum
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrum_(software_development)>`__ and
wrote my own summary.

The **Product Owner** represents the stakeholders and the voice of the
customer. The Product Owner writes customer-centric items (user
stories) and adds them to the *Product Backlog*.  *Communication* is a
core responsibility of the Product Owner.  The Product Owner should
focus on the business side of product development and should not
dictate how the team reaches a technical solution.

The **Product Backlog** is a list of requirements for a project.  The
PB is *ordered* based on importance and dependencies of items.
Example of a backlog is that of the RIA's `X-Road joint development
<https://github.com/vrk-kpa/xroad-joint-development/issues>`__
project.

The Product Owner role should not be combined with that of the **Scrum
Master**.  The Scrum Master is not a traditional team lead or project
manager, but acts as a buffer between the team and any distracting
influences.  The Scrum Master helps to ensure the team follows the
agreed processes in the Scrum framework.  The Scrum Master facilitates
key sessions and encourages the team to improve.  This role has also
been referred to as a team facilitator or servant-leader to reinforce
these dual perspectives.

A **Sprint** is the basic unit of development in Scrum. The Sprint is
a timeboxed effort (restricted to a specific duration).  The duration
is fixed in advance for each Sprint and is normally between one week
and one month.  Each Sprint starts with a *Sprint Planning* event that
aims to define a *Sprint Backlog*, identify the work for the Sprint,
and make an estimated commitment for the Sprint goal. Each Sprint ends
with a *Sprint Review* that reviews progress to show to stakeholders
and identify lessons and improvements for the next Sprints.

Scrum emphasizes work that is really done at the end of the Sprint. In
the case of software, this likely includes that the software has been
fully integrated, tested and documented, and is potentially shippable.



Meeting with Tanel
==================

Today with Tanel we understood a few things:

- we need more examples of tickets for "issues of public interest"
  because the whole system makes more sense.

- Kokku võtma seda, mida räägitakse küla peal, Facebookis.  See on
  oluline ülesanne.

- Aga mitte iga inimene, kes suhtleb teistega, on ka andekas sekretär.

Peamised objektid andmebaasis:
  
- Kasutajad (Users)
  
- Inimesed (Persons)
  
- Oskused (Skills)

- Tickets : Ülesanne, Palve, Piletid, ...
  
  Ticket types:
  - Arutelu
  - Abipalve
  - Üritus
  - Küsitlus
  
- Projektid (Projects)
  
- Hääletamine (Votes) : minu arvamus ühe pileti kohta. See võib olla
  minimaalne ("jälgin")
  
- Arutelud
- Kommentarid

  (otsida, vaadata, muuta, lisada)

  
