:date: 2017-03-11

========================
Saturday, March 11, 2017
========================

I added explanations to my yesterday's blog entry (because of
:ticket:`1564`).  I optimized the output of the :cmd:`inv ct` command.

Avanti
======

I continued on Avanti (:ticket:`1547`). For this ticket I have my todo
list in German (see below) which I will show to the customer when I am
done. I leave yesterday's list as it was yesterday evening and copied
it here before continuing on it.

Avanti required an internal API change in
:meth:`lino.core.store.StoreField.get_value_text` with consequences to
:ref:`extjs6` as well: a ForeignKey store field now always uses
:meth:`lino.core.model.Model.get_choices_text` for rendering its
value. That's because we need the requesting user in order to decide
whether to show the client's name or not. First usage example is
:class:`lino_avanti.lib.avanti.models.Client` as documented in
:ref:`avanti.specs.courses`.  The changes in
:ref:`voga.tested.cal`, 
:ref:`book.specs.countries` and :ref:`dev.ar` were a surprise to
myself, and a nice confirmation that this API change makes sense.


Avanti Aufgabenliste
====================


DONE:  

- Coachings raus. Nur ein einziges Feld "Primärbegleiter". Und die
  Sozis im ÖSHZ kommen als Klientenkontakte rein.
  Das Panel für Klientenkontakte muss wohl größer werden.
  Client now inherts from UserAuthored. New table MyClients.
  
- New plugin :mod:`lino_xl.lib.trends`.

- Summary panel für EventsByCourse. New method
  :meth:`EventGenerator.get_date_formatter`

- Dashboard aktivieren.

- Neue Aufgaben müssen Status "todo" haben.

- Koordinator darf keine Namen der Teilnehmer sehen, lediglich
  Nummern und Wohnort.

TODO:  

- Auditor ist wie der Koordinator, nur dass er zusätzlich die Berichte
  als Spreadsheets runterladen kann: Klienten, Kurse, Teilnehmer,
  Anwesenheiten.

- Im Detail eines Termins fehlt der Klient. Und die action buttons.
  Und assigned_to ist zu viel.

- Termine generieren pro Klient : da kommt nichts.

- Terminstatus "Stattgefunden" verweigern, wenn es noch Teilnehmer
  gibt, die noch auf "Eingeladen" stehen.

- Kursleiter und Sozialarbeiter sollen keine Termine generieren können.
  
- Teilnehmerliste drucken können.

- Diverse Übersetzungen
  
- Text "Tags" im Feld "Wann" eines Kurses wenn Mo, Di, Do und Fr.

- Feldbezeichnungen cal.Task : "Zahlungsziel" -> "Frist". "Autor" ->
  "Verantwortlicher"

- Klick in Event.overview zeigt alle Termine an diesem Tag. Unnötig.

- Produktionsbetrieb aufnehmen (Demo-Modus abschalten und fiktive
  Daten löschen)

- Hide field Course.end_date
- Hide fields Course.every_unit and Course.every
- Hide num_places from Enrolments.insert_layout


Zu klären:
    
- Jeder darf nur seine Kommentare sehen.  Aber sind Kommentare
  überhaupt das Richtige? Jedenfalls brauchen wir keine
  Diskussionen. Zu klären, wenn Johanna mir eine Liste mit Beispielen
  "Entwicklungsverlauf" geschickt hat. Kommentar-Arten fehlt im Menü
  Konfigurierung.
  
- (?) EnrolmentStates : Bestanden / Nicht bestanden.  
  
- Neues Feld "Aufenthaltstitel" pro Klient. Wie war das noch mal?


  
        
Chatter
========

I worked on :ticket:`1331`:
I read
https://realpython.com/blog/python/getting-started-with-django-channels/
and tried to get the notifications running at least on my machine.

I played around::

    $ sudo apt install redis-server
    $ pip install redis

>>> import redis
>>> rs = redis.Redis("localhost")
>>> lst = rs.client_list()
>>> print(lst[0]['addr'])
127.0.0.1:49226

I removed the automagic configuration for redis because that was a bit
too complex. I also optimized usage of
:meth:`lino.core.site.Site.get_used_libs` so that the
:menuselection:`Site --> About` window indicates whether channels is
installed and whether :attr:`use_websockets
<lino.core.site.Site.use_websockets>` is `True`.

I started a new specs document about :ref:`book.specs.notify`,
a new sample application "Lino Chatter" in the Lino Book
(:mod:`lino_book.projects.chatter`), and for this application a new
plugin :mod:`lino_xl.lib.groups`.

TODO:

- currently the desktop notifications do not work, even on a
  development server. The JS console says :message:`WebSocket
  connection to 'ws://127.0.0.1:8000/lino' failed: Error during
  WebSocket handshake: net::ERR_CONNECTION_RESET`

- MyMemberships instead of MyGroups. Add a field Membership.mail_mode
  
- write documentation
  


