:date: 2017-03-13

======================
Monday, March 13, 2017
======================

Avanti
======

I continued to work on the Avanti tasks list (:ticket:`1547`).

General code changes:

- New general user role :class:`lino.core.roles.Explorer`
  
- Calendar events no longer automatically inherit from
  :class: `Assignable <lino.modlib.users.mixins.Assignable>`.  Only
  Welfare uses this (until now).  This change will require a database
  migrator (or manually commenting out that field in the
  :xfile:`restore.py`) for Voga. (This change is not yet finished. If
  we decide that we need it, then we must also redefine the parameters
  handling of that field)

- The ResetEvent action in :mod:`cal.workflows.voga` was defined
  twice.

Little problems encountered:

- AttributeError: 'WSGIRequest' object has no attribute 'get_user' :
  yes, the `request` in
  :func:`lino.modlib.extjs.views.choices_for_field` is a plain Django
  request, not an action request. That's because I don't yet decide
  how to specify the actor when calling the list of choices for a
  dialog action or a parameter field. Has to do with :ticket:`232`.

- After moving config from lino_voga.lib.courses to
  lino_xl.lib.courses I did :cmd:`inv mm` and saw a surprising error
  message::

    extracting messages from lino_xl/lib/blogs/config/blogs/entry.html
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "setup.py", line 5, in <module>
        setup(**SETUP_INFO)
      ...
      File "/virtualenvs/py27/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/pkg_resources/_vendor/packaging/markers.py", line 185, in _get_env
        "{0!r} does not exist in evaluation environment.".format(name)
    pkg_resources._vendor.packaging.markers.UndefinedEnvironmentName: 'extra' does not exist in evaluation environment.

  It seems that this was a `bug in setuptools
  <https://github.com/pypa/setuptools/issues/523>`_ because after
  ``pip install -U setuptools`` the problem disappeared.

  
  
         

DONE:  

- Coachings raus. Nur ein einziges Feld "Primärbegleiter". Und die
  Sozis im ÖSHZ kommen als Klientenkontakte rein.
  Das Panel für Klientenkontakte muss wohl größer werden.
  Client now inherts from UserAuthored. New table MyClients.
  
- New plugin :mod:`lino_xl.lib.trends`.

- Summary panel für EventsByCourse. New method
  :meth:`EventGenerator.get_date_formatter`

- Dashboard aktivieren.

- Neue Aufgaben müssen Status "todo" haben.

- Koordinator darf keine Namen der Teilnehmer sehen, lediglich
  Nummern und Wohnort.

- Auditor ist wie der Koordinator, nur dass er zusätzlich die Berichte
  als Spreadsheets runterladen kann: Klienten, Kurse, Teilnehmer,
  Anwesenheiten.

- Im Detail eines Termins fehlt der Klient. Und die action buttons.
  
- Im Menü Konfigurierung fehlt Kommentar-Arten

- Terminstatus "Stattgefunden" verweigern, wenn es noch Teilnehmer
  gibt, die noch auf "Eingeladen" stehen.

- Teilnehmerliste drucken können.

- Termine generieren pro Klient : da kommt nichts.

- Hide field Course.end_date
  
TODO:  

- Hide num_places from Enrolments.insert_layout
  
- Diverse Übersetzungen
  
- Text "Tags" im Feld "Wann" eines Kurses wenn Mo, Di, Do und Fr.

- Feldbezeichnungen cal.Task : "Zahlungsziel" -> "Frist". "Autor" ->
  "Verantwortlicher"

- Klick in Event.overview zeigt alle Termine an diesem Tag. Unnötig
  und irritierend.

- Produktionsbetrieb aufnehmen (Demo-Modus abschalten und fiktive
  Daten löschen)

- Hide fields Course.every_unit and Course.every

Zu klären:
    
- Kursleiter und Sozialarbeiter sollen keine Termine generieren können.
  
- Jeder darf nur seine Kommentare sehen.  Aber sind Kommentare
  überhaupt das Richtige? Jedenfalls brauchen wir keine
  "Diskussionen" i.e.S. Vielleicht reicht schon das neue Modul 
  "Entwicklungsverlauf"
  
- (?) EnrolmentStates : Bestanden / Nicht bestanden.  
  
- Neues Feld "Aufenthaltstitel" pro Klient. Wie war das noch mal?


- Feld `assigned_to` : das habe ich drin gelassen, denn vielleicht
  braucht ihr es doch: nämlich falls ein Koordinator Termine verlegt
  oder plant, dann würden die Kursleiter in diesem Feld stehen (statt
  schon gleich als Verwantwortliche), und das



Welfare production release scheduled for Thursday night
=======================================================

Gerd and I scheduled a production release on :ref:`weleup` for
Thursday night. They have been running on their old version for almost
one year (since 23.03.2016).

I started the final sprint for this release with some manual tests.

About :ticket:`1553`: Eine Konsequenz ist, dass das Feld "Begleiter im
DSBE" eines Vertrags jetzt "Autor" heißt. In diesem Feld steht der
Benutzer, der den Vertrag erstellt hat (entweder DSBE oder ASD). Der
Autor kann in egal welchem Dienst sein.  Wenn der Autor den Kunden
nicht im ASD begleitet und es einen einzigen aktiven Begleiter im ASD
gibt, dann wird dieser zusätzlich automatisch ins Feld `user_asd`
("Verantwortlicher (ASD)") eingetragen.

Tonis in Vigala
===============

Tonis arrived today at noon in Vigala and will stay here for one
day. It is his first visit here, and the first time after 6 weeks of
being colleagues that we work *physically* together. It was a good
experience for both of us. 

In the afternoon Tonis and I worked on :ticket:`1556`. We worked next
to each other in "decoupled" mode: I continued with :ticket:`1189` and
:ticket:`1547`, sometimes watching Tonis or answering questions like
"How to inject a virtual field into a model of another plugin"::

    def f(obj, ar):
       return obj.get_body()

    dd.inject_field('django_mailbox.Message', 'preview',
      dd.VirtualField(dd.HtmlBox(_("Preview"), f))

In the evening Tanel joined us for a sauna, and of course we spoke
about the Vilma project then.
