:date: 2017-03-15

=========================
Wednesday, March 15, 2017
=========================

Avanti, es geht los!
====================

I did last changes in Avanti for :ticket:`1547` and then upgraded
their server.

I also moved them into "production service", i.e. I set
:attr:`lino.core.site.Site.is_demo_site` to `False` and I ran the
following script::

    from lino.api import rt
    rt.models.comments.Comment.objects.all().delete()
    rt.models.contacts.Role.objects.all().delete()
    rt.models.households.Member.objects.all().delete()
    rt.models.households.Household.objects.all().delete()
    rt.models.cal.Event.objects.all().delete()
    rt.models.courses.Enrolment.objects.all().delete()
    rt.models.avanti.Client.objects.all().delete()

Plans for today
===============

I suggest that Tonis and I will work together today (as
far as possible) in order to

- (mainly Luc) make some more optimizations in Jane for project
  management (new tables Wishes and Duties)
- (mainly Tonis) update the SSL certificates on mylino.net
- (mainly Tonis) configure postfix on SR so that our mails@SR (luc,
  tonis, hamza, tanel) make it into the database (I guess by calling
  getmail on each incoming mail)
  
- release@jane
- (Hamza) get ready to switch Jane to ext6 when we have released Noi on Jane    


Competences
===========

I added a database model "Competence" to
:mod:`lino_noi.lib.tickets`. A competence is when a given user is
responsible for a given project. Users see a new table "My
competences", which gives an overview of the projects you are working
on. The list is sorted by priority.  It is even a quick link.

A vote now has a mandatory pointer to project. That is, when a user
votes for a ticket, this vote is always in the context of a given
project. The default value for the project of a vote is the user's
top-most competence.

Side effect: We have a new overridable standard model method
:meth:`as_summary_item <lino.core.model.Model.as_summary_item>`.  Application code
should replace `ar.obj2html(obj)` by `obj.as_summary_item(ar)` when it wants
to use the default text. See also :ticket:`1504`. But this here is
even more because now we can specify per model a default value for the
text and title to use for building a clickable HTML link to that
object.


release@jane
============

I did the release to Jane with Tonis watching. He is learning quickly.
It seems that the new things (competences and vote.project pointer)
are what I wanted. I'll continue to discover this tomorrow.

And then another HO with Hamza where we activated extjs6 and did tests
on Jane. We discovered two more issues, so we had to switch back once
more. Hamza liked the new structure competences and vote.project
pointer.
