:date: 2017-03-17

======================
Friday, March 17, 2017
======================

Vilma now using Noi
===================

Yesterday I had a meeting about :ref:`vilma` with Ülle. This caused a
little TODO list which I delivered in a quick sprint (using
:ticket:`1588`):

DONE:

- bugfix : cannot create projects
- verbose_name of tickets plugin is now "Projects"
- verbose_name of clocking plugin is now "Work time"
- adapted detail_layout of organizations and persons for entering addresses
- SkillsByProvider also for Company

- Changed the default value for
  :attr:`lino.core.utils.Parametrizable.params_panel_hidden` from False
  to True.
- Move Vilma from Lino Care to Lino Noi à la Team
- import Estonian places ($ dm loaddata eesti)
- Ticket.allow_cascaded_delete = 'votable'
- release @ vilma
- sent mail to Tanel & Ülle
- new sample project :mod:`lino_noi.projects.vilma`

TODO:

- Automatically create a vote when a user comments on a ticket
- Why did Lino let me delete person id 110 alors qu'il y avait des topics?


Running a server in readonly mode
=================================

I opened :ticket:`1589` because this is a current situation these
days. It caused a few code changes (e.g. it is not :manage:`initdb`
but only :cmd:`pm prep` which should do nothing on a readonly site) in
order to become (hopefully) useful.  See my comments in Jane.

Adapting test suites
====================

I adapted the Noi test suite after my changes this morning.

Repairing the docs
==================

I finally fixed a little problem (:ticket:`1591`) which had caused my
blog to not publish yesterday.



Bitcoin versus Taler
====================

I read a blog post by German FSFE fellow Wolfgang Romey about the high
energy usage of the bitcoin system (`Bitcoin: ein Energiefresser!
<https://blogs.fsfe.org/wromey/2017/03/12/bitcoin-ein-energiefresser/>`__).

`How Much Power Does the Bitcoin Network Use?
<https://www.thebalance.com/how-much-power-does-the-bitcoin-network-use-391280>`__,
brings it to the point by saying "Bitcoin may be a useful way to send
and receive money, but all this financial liberation doesn’t come for
free. The community of miners who create bitcoins is using vast
quantities of electrical power in the process."

Romey then mentions `Taler <https://taler.net>`__, a new alternative
to Bitcoin developed by `Inria
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/French_Institute_for_Research_in_Computer_Science_and_Automation>`__. The
important difference AFAICS is well summarized on the Taler website:
"When using Taler, merchants cannot hide their income from tax
collection authorities. Unlike cash and most digital currencies, Taler
helps prevent black markets. Taler is not suitable for illegal
activities."  Yes, Bitcoin is for liberalists who don't trust in
governments.  I *do* trust in governments because I believe in
democracy.  (Which does not mean that democratic governments are
perfect.) That's why Bitcoin is not important for me.  Yes, I still
like my page about
`Why software must be free <http://hw.saffre-rumma.net/fs/index.html>`_.

BTW the `Taler documentation <https://docs.taler.net/>`__ is authored
in Sphinx :-)
