:date: 2017-03-21

=======================
Tuesday, March 21, 2017
=======================


I realized that we don't need to add a "Wishes" table (:ticket:`1607`)
because we have it already. It is named "Deployments".  I just need to
convert our sprint project into milestones.  The only difference is
that a milestone is not a project.

New field Project.milestone, i.e. every project has an optional
current milestone whose wishes (deploiyments) are to be displayed in
DeploymentsByProject and DeploymentsByCompetence.

A "Deployment" is now Sequenced.

These "competences" (linking a user and a project) should be renamed
to "team memberships".


Problems after release in cpaseupen
===================================

I had 1300 messages in my inbox because
:meth:`lino.modlib.memo.parser.Parser.register_django_model` logged an
`exception` and not just a `warning` when the memo parser's `note`
command finds a non existing primary key.  :ticket:`1608`.  This even
caused a minute of server downtime because I made a typo when
inserting a local workaround.


I tried to reproduce :ticket:`1609` in
:mod:`lino_welfare.projects.eupen.tests.test_clients` but without
success. I guess that it happens only on MySQL and not on SQLite.
:attr:`lino.core.site.Site.history_aware_logging` no longer gets
automatically activated when a xfile:`log` directory exists.


Releases @jane
==============

I did a series of releases to Jane for :ticket:`1607`. Test suites are
not yet adapted.

Per customer I have one ticket "General discussion and releases" which
is going to be deployed (wished) in every milestone of that customer.
