:date: 2017-03-22

=========================
Wednesday, March 22, 2017
=========================

I poked around in Jane and tidied up (:ticket:`268`).
This includes a few more optimizations:
projects are now sorted by reference.
Deployment.remark now a plain textfield (instead of charfield).


The end of the Vilma project?
=============================

Today I stumbled over `rahvaalgatus.ee
<https://rahvaalgatus.ee/about>`__ and `CitizenOS
<https://citizenos.com/en/about>`_.  And I am afraid that this means
the end for the :ref:`vilma` project.

The last weeks have shown that the :ref:`vilma` project is a full-time
job. It takes a lot of time to find volunteers who would become
village agents, explain them why they should help us, analyze their
needs and optimize :ref:`noi` so that it can be used. And the first
thing most people say is "I cannot operate it using my phone, then I
will certainly not use it". This means that :ticket:`1078` and
:ticket:`1078` need to come soon as well.  And there are at least a
dozen of cool features in CitizenOS which we didn't even yet think
about. Turning :ref:`noi` into something comparable to Uservoice will
cost more than a man-year.  I am afraid that Rumma & Ko simply don't
have the capital for investing all that work!

And then the question *whether* it should be done at all. My personal
answer is clear: CitizenOS is really cool, but it seems that it is
implemented using proprietary software owned by `Uservoice
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UserVoice>`__.  Tõnn London suggested
already one year ago (in `April 2016
<https://citizenos.uservoice.com/forums/303627-general/suggestions/13580892-v%C3%B5iksite-lisada-info-portaali-tarkvara-kohta>`__):
"Võiksite lisada info tarkvara kohta, mida see portaal kasutab, et kas
on avatud lähtekoodiga, kas saab kuskilt alla laadida jne" and he
didn't get any answer.

I started to write the following suggestion:

    Nõuda rahvaalgatuse platvormi arendajalt lähtekoodi avalikustamine
    vaba litsentsi all

    Rahvaalgatus.ee platvorm on üles pandud avaliku rahaga, kuid tubli
    osa sellest rahast läheb tarkvara tootjale Uservoice San
    Franciscos. See ei ole iseenesest probleem, aga kuna tarkvara
    lähtekood on ja jääb nende oma, siis läheb lõppude lõpuks kogu
    know-how riigist välja.

    Ettepanek - Me nõuame, et rahvaalgatuse platvormi arendaja
    avalikustaks vaba litsentsi kogu lähtekoodi, mis platvormi
    käivitamiseks vaja.  Kui nad sellega ei nõustu, siis tuleb uut
    arandajat leida.

    Põhjendus - Praeguse lahendusega annab Eesti rahvas oma raha, aega
    ja energia selleks, et suurendada kellegi välismaa tarkvaraomaniku
    võimekuse. Seda peaks võimalikult kiiresti lõpetada.

It needs of course much courage and naiveness to hope that above
petition might get 1000 votes. But such thoughts are not a reason to
give up before you even tried...

Technically the site uses `Raven.js
<https://github.com/getsentry/raven-js>`__, the browser JavaScript
client for `Sentry <https://sentry.io>`_.  Sentry is a nonfree
solution for collecting and analyzing JavaScript tracebacks.

BTW it is funny to see how close their basic idea matches my basic
idea of the :ref:`vilma` project : the processes used for developing
software can be reused for making democratic decisions. So actually
CitizenOS and rahvaalgatus are a confirmation that we are targeting
the right thing.

EDIT: Later Tanel heard that CitizenOS *are* indeed planning to go
open source. If this is true, then it will be cheaper for Vana-Vigala
to start using this eisting platform. So the :ref:`vilma` project goes
to sleep now.


Miscellaneous optimizations
===========================

Today I continued to do occasional quick upgrades of our Jane.

- height of insert_layout of a Deployment must no longer be 'auto'.
  
- Choosing a milestone with label 20171231 fails because Lino
  interprets it as numeric.  I adapted a demo fixture and
  :ref:`noi.specs.tickets` to document the effect.  I fixed this by
  defining a `quick_search_filter` method as in Referrable.
  

More ideas todo:
- Session action buttons : write comment
- Start a new session on a ticket as soon as you start a comment.
- Make sessions readonly when they are earlier than a given date.
- Prevent ticket state "working" when nobody is assigned.
- The notification about a comment, at least when displayed in the dashboard, might include a link for replying.  


Double release Welfare in Chatelet and Eupen
============================================

An unexplained error message during the restore in welcht was this::

  Loading 25244 objects to table esf_clientsummary...
  /usr/local/virtualenvs/b/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/db/backends/mysql/base.py:112:
  Warning: Data truncated for column 'esf70' at row 1
  return self.cursor.execute(query, args)
  
