:date: 2017-04-03

=====================
Monday, April 3, 2017
=====================

Yet another release to Jane and Vilma
with a few optimizations:
:ticket:`1660` (Cannot specify an end_user),
:ticket:`1659` (Display ticket's status together with summary),
:ticket:`1662` (Some fields are missing in SiteConfig detail layout),
:ticket:`1663` (Cannot mark a ticket as refused).

A less internal ticket is :ticket:`1661` (Sarkastische Fehlermeldung
"Herzlichen Glückwunsch"). This is because Monique told me how Gaby
had been working alone with Lino for the first time, and that was
unfortunately exactly when I was working on another site on that
server. At some moment she received a "Congratulations, you found an
error in our system."  In :xfile:`500.html` I changed the text
"Congratulations, you found an error in our system."  to "Oops, you
found an error in our system.  Don't panic, this is definitively not
your fault. (...)", including a reference to the new site attribute
:attr:`hoster_status_page <lino.core.site.Site.hoster_status_page>`.

This was the first time that I did two simultaneous releases.


Luc taking two tickets
======================

Tonis and I realized that I must now work a bit on :ticket:`1201` and
:ticket:`1556`. Tonis explained me where is stopped and how to
reproduce the problems he stumbled into.

For :ticket:`1556` the problem is mostly how to inject a FK field (a
pointer to ticket) into `django_mailbox.Message`. It seems that this
fails because it is not a real Lino model.

And for :ticket:`1201` I can reproduce the current problem as follows:

- checkout mailbox branch on xl and noi
- go team
- dm prep ; runserver
- in Evolution create a remote calendar with URL
  http://127.0.0.1:8000/.rad/user/calendar.ics/

- in Evolution create a new entry in that calendar.

When Evolution sends the PUT to Lino, Lino seems to "freeze".
After some timeout Evolution says:

    Cannot create calendar object: Unexpected HTTP status code 7
    returned (Connection terminated unexpectedly) for URI:
    http://luc@127.0.0.1:8000/.rad/user/calendar.ics/20170403T075709Z-15537-1000-2126-0_doll-20170403T075719Z.ics

I plan to dive into the Radicale docs
(e.g. http://radicale.org/user_documentation/#idcomplex-configuration)
and figure out how to integrate it into Lino. I currently believe that
a fundamental question is the storage.


Deployment strategy
===================

We discussed about our deployment workflow and decided:

Tonis creates a "stable" branch on every repository and instructs
Travis to focus on stable. The `master` branch is our development
branch.  Luc continues to use `master` as usual.

Tonis starts to be "reponsible" for the "stable" branch of all repos
and will try to get them pass on Travis.

All customers will continue to use the `master` branch.
Except the demo sites LF which is going to use `stable`.
And Tonis takes responibility of maintinaing these.

And when Tonis does changes in the stable branch, Luc must of course
merge them. Something like this::

    $ go lino
    $ git status # check that i am on master branch
    $ git pull
    $ git merge stable

Why I stopped using GitKraken: because the community version told me
that "for commercial u se, Git Pro is required". Now my question is
"Do they consider my usage as commercial? I am making money with
software development. But only using free software."  I guess that


