:date: 2017-04-04

======================
Tuesday, April 4, 2017
======================

Lino Vilma workshop with Jüri and Tanel
=======================================

Yesterday we had a workshop about Lino Vilma with Tanel and Jüri.  I
had invited four other people (Liina, Ilona, Krista, Anneli), but
these are very busy people and my invitation was sent out too late so
that none of them was able to assist.  So we were only three and only
men: Tanel, Jüri and me. But actually three people was enough.

In the invitation I formulated our goal:

    Talgude eesmärk : Paneme paika, millised funktioonid on mõttekas
    hakkata kasutama.  Hakkame kirjutama käsiraamat tulevastele
    kasutajatele (jätta endale selle lingi igaks juhuks kuskil meelde)

It turned out that we *don't* need to write a *user's manual*
(käsiraamat) because normal users don't read manuals.  Yes I knew this
before, but I needed Tanel to realize it.

We don't need a *user's* manual but a *trainer's* manual (koolitaja
käsiraamat).  We need a "book" to be used and maintained by the people
who are going to train future Lino Vilma users.  This tutorial is
currently in a document on Google Drive:

    `Lino Vilma koolitaja käsiraamat
    <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zBQcjtrkjcVqBFOwpHQX_2gHI0FEKmGc09SwerSEl_Y/edit?usp=sharing>`__

It makes no sense to have this document only on my machine because we
must find a team of persons who take responsibility for this document.
Tanel will also need this document in order to understand what we are
doing and why we do it, in order to explain it to stakeholders.  Wow,
what a big project!

I then explained Lino Vilma to Jüri.  A summary of what I explained to
Jüri (and what I suggest that future trainers should explain to their
trainees) is currently in that document on Google Drive. I updated
that document this morning. Jüri later suggested that we might record
my talk next time, cut it into pieces and build a virtual training.

And, as expected, a tangible result of our meeting is another nice
list of little code changes to do:

DONE (Luc):

  "Lipikuliiged" --> "Lipikuolekud"

- translations:
  "Calendar entry" = Sündmus
  "Calendar entry types" = Sündmuste liigid
  
- "Lipikuliiged" is used for both Ticket states and ticket types
  
- WishesByTicket : label should be "agenda item in:" ("Päevakorras
  üritustel:")
  
- the "Summary" of a calendar entry should rather be labelled "Short
  description"
  
TODO (Tonis):

- It should be possible to directly add uploads and comments to
  something else than a ticket. For example to an activity
  (courses.Course), to a person, to a company.

- jane#1654 (has two votes, one invited and one watching) : "Cannot
  Refused because there is no vote marked as set([]) .", "Cannot
  Closed because there is no vote marked as set([<VoteStates.done:40>,
  <VoteStates.cancelled:60>]) ."

- Switch back from "Event" to "Activity" as the general term for
  courses.Course. Because "event" implies a known date, but there are
  avtivities for which we want to collect enrolments or wishes before
  we know a date.

- MyEnrolments - shows my enrolments in some (active) activity

- summary panel of WishesByTicket : do not show closed activities,
  just an indication "+ N closed activities".
  
- Change Extensible Calendar configuration : 24h and 6h-22h
  
- cal.Guest.partner : should be a pointer to Person, not to Partner.
  
- topics.Topic should be Hierarchical (and then in configuration menu
  two entries AllTopics and TopLevelTopics as e.g. in
  :mod:`lino_xl.lib.faculties`)
  
- DuplicatesByTicket : readonly and with summary panel

- Show uploads in the list of comments. That is, the insert dialog for
  uploads should have an additional text field, and if the user writes
  something in that field, Lino stores that text as a comment.
  
- Activity line (ürituste sari) : should not be mandatory. e.g. a
  default value if empty. Courses.insert_layout should rather include
  the name of the course.
  
- UpdateVote and CreateVote : these detail windows should close afer
  every save

- VoteDetail should not have a (+) button (insert_action)

- Add a field cal.Room.place (FK to countries.Place). If this field is
  empty and partner isn't (i.e. either company or contact_person),
  then fill it from partner.
  
TALK (next time):

- UserTypes designations
- Voting workflow is not yet finished.
- Do we need a visual tool for moving tickets around (like Google
  Keep)?
  
- How to send a photo from phone to Vilma (waiting for :ticket:`1556`)
- How to publish calendar entries (waiting for :ticket:`1201` )
  
- cal.Room doesn't need to be Hierarchical because every room will
  have a company or at least a place
  
- verbose_name of topics.Topic should not be "Topic", but rather "News
  channel" in Vilma and "Component" in Team.
  

Repaired test suites
====================

I must now adapt the test suites to my changes of the last days so
that Tonis can start the stable branches. Currently he is locked
because it is difficult for him to decide whether a failure is mine or
not.

En passant I also integrated the specs of cosi into book, as I did
with noi some days ago. Tonis and I have the impression that this is
the right direction.  It is possible that we *don't* need to do this
also for voga and welfare and presto and avanti because noi and cosi
already provide a nice "demo context" for explaining the Lino
framework.  Okay Voga and Presto might be interesting to also
integrate, but Welfare and Avanti are quite specific to Belgian public
administrations (which is not bad, but at the worldwide level it is
not much).

So e.g.  :mod:`lino_noi.lib` and :mod:`lino_cosi.lib` now point to the
API section of the Lino Book.  And :ref:`specs.cosi.finan` or
:ref:`specs.cosi.apc` point to the Specs section of the Lino Book.

I am not yet decided what to do with :ref:`noi` and
:ref:`cosi`. Actually they should be available only in my blog and
point to the end-user docs.

Oops, when I had the test suite passing, I realized that I had been
doing this in the mailbox branches in xl and noi. (Sigh... I have the
feeling that I will never get used to working in multiple branches).

So I think the best is now to head on and merge mailbox branch into
master. 


Getting the repositories to pass on Travis
==========================================

Tonis and I had our next hangout.  I showed Tonis my work on
:ticket:`1201` and :ticket:`1556`. Together we did several checkins
and optimizations. We merged thw two mailbox branches into master.

I will now continue to get master to pass on my machine at least.

Here is how to run the wholte test suite of the Lino SDK::

    $ pp inv clean -b
    $ time pp inv prep bd test

The whole process takes 37 minutes on my machine.
