:date: 2017-04-07

=====================
Friday, April 7, 2017
=====================

I created :ticket:`1694` and decided that it is time to write a test
case :mod:`test_workflow
<lino_book.projects.team.tests.test_workflow>`.  which covers the
ticket and vote workflow.

For this test case I optimized the actions API:

- A subclass of Action can now define a hard-coded :attr:`action_name`.

- The :meth:`run_from_ui` method of certain actions now pass keyword
  arguments to :meth:`create_instance_from_request`

Relevant code changes:  

- 2017-04-07 10:12 in *lino*:
  `7612a5e <https://github.com/lino-framework/lino/commit/9039e372db62404bbf927153eeec8bf357612a5e>`__
- 2017-04-07 10:12 in *lino_book*:
  `2f9b430 <https://github.com/lino-framework/book/commit/53b979974e217df54fcc765841ef5d3f32f9b430>`__
- 2017-04-07 10:13 in *lino_xl*:
  `dc6e3b2 <https://github.com/lino-framework/xl/commit/918f206d0fd7a41ba56c2c9f093907766dc6e3b2>`__
- 2017-04-07 10:13 in *lino_noi*:
  `6c2aeb3 <https://github.com/lino-framework/noi/commit/f8168b6bccac0d43b948f99daa240149e6c2aeb3>`__
- 2017-04-07 10:14 in *blog*:
  `086b345 <https://github.com/lsaffre/blog/commit/f6c08af6e41321ed2a96f8711029ff937086b345>`__
  




Lino application with mobile-friendly interface
===============================================

Joe plans a new Lino project which requires a mobile-friendly
interface. He wrote "What I have in mind is probably just changing the
skin to look more "modern" and what is more important to have
everything bigger - bigger buttons, windows, etc.  It is possible to
use the same skin as for example `this example
<http://examples.sencha.com/extjs/6.2.0/examples/classic/ticket-app/index.html>`__
is using? I was hoping that Lino ExtJS 6 will have this skin by
default.  In current "old style" everything is too small."

Hamza already answered correctly that yes you can choose which theme
or skin you want to use by setting the `theme_name
<https://github.com/lino-framework/extjs6/blob/master/lino_extjs6/extjs6/__init__.py#L126>`__
config for your site.


Spontaneously I would add that Joes "only" problem is the dashboard
(the main page). This page is indeed built using plain html and does
not use the ExtJS widgets, that's why everything looks so "small".

I suggest that you explore how Lino builds this page:

- :meth:`lino.core.site.Site.get_dashboard_items`
- :attr:`lino.core.userprefs.UserPrefs.dahboard_items`
- :xfile:`admin_main_base.html`
- :meth:`lino.core.dashboard.ActorItem.render`
- :meth:`lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.show`
- :meth:`lino_extjs6.extjs6.ext_renderer.Renderer.show_table`

I guess that we must define a :meth:`table2story` method on
:class:`lino_extjs6.extjs6.ext_renderer.Renderer` which overrides the
default implementation in :class:`lino.core.renderer.HtmlRenderer`.
  
