:date: 2017-04-08

=======================
Saturday, April 8, 2017
=======================

Miscellaneous
=============

The :class:`lino_xl.lib.votes.VotesByVotable` summary no longer shows
the :attr:`username <lino.modlib.users.User.username>` but the default
:meth:`str` of the voters. And :meth:`lino.modlib.users.User.__str__`
now displays the :attr:`initials <lino.modlib.users.User.initials>`
field.

I also moved most docstrings of :mod:`lino.modlib.users` from the code
to the :ref:`specs`. I believe that this is now finally our
prefererred way for structuring the documentation of a plugin. I
created :ticket:`1708` for this and started :ref:`dev.docstrings`.

Avanti
======

DONE

- Doppelklick auf Johanna --> [Wed Apr 05 14:30:21.939103 2017] [wsgi:error] [pid 18600:tid 140141732259584] UnicodeDecodeError: 'ascii' codec can't decode byte 0xc3 in position 25:

  :ticket:`1709`. This was caused by a missing "from builtins import
  :str" in class:`lino_xl.lib.cv.mixins`. Fixed.
  
- Klientenstatus "Neuantrag" kann *wirklich* raus.
  
- Explorer : cf_level_de : "A2", nicht "Elementare Sprachverwendung"
  
- StudiesByPerson und ExperiencesByPerson : Beginndatum und Enddatum
  unsichtbar. Bemerkungen sichtbar. Neues Feld "Dauer".
  
- Klienten column_names + "*"

- Umfragen (polls) aktivieren.  
  
TODO:

- Klienten filtern können nach "Kursbedarf" : wer mindestens eine
  Anfrage in einem Kurs dieser Serie hat. Feld needed_course kann
  wahrscheinlich dann raus.

- Mit Johanna testen : Kandidatenlisten für Kursanbieter.
  Erstgespräche.
  
- Kartennummer kann weg
  
- (à confirmer) Partnernummer wieder in die Excel-Daten rein, damit
  man keine Verknüpfung zwischen Klienten und Einschreibungen machen
  kann.  Stattdessen darf Janina im Kurs nur die Namen ohne Nummer
  sehen.

Side effects

- The new model attribute :attr:`allow_cascaded_copy
  <lino.core.model.Model.allow_cascaded_copy>`.


Request data not supplied
=========================
  
I experimented with Lino's behaviour when clients send invalid Ajax
requests, e.g. because the user didn't refresh their browser after a
server upgrade or database migration (which requires the user to
authenticate again).  After an upgrade on a production server we
sometimes get lots of emails which are probably caused by this.  One
problem with these emails was that we cannot even see which user
caused the problem because it said just :ticket:`1715` (Request data
not supplied).  But also :ticket:`1605` (Force refresh of client's
javascript after server upgrade) seems now solved. (We don't *force* a
refresh but tell the user what's going on.)

To simulate the situation, I wrote the following :cmd:`pm run`
script::

    from lino.api import rt
    rt.models.sessions.Session.objects.all().delete()

I log in, open some window, then run above script.
And then I try to do anythin a user might do.
  
:class:`lino.utils.ajax.AjaxExceptionResponse` no longer returns a
HttpResponseForbidden or similar response from :mod:`django.http`
because I have the feeling that when I return any of these responses
here, Django does some processing which assumes they are HTML.  In
Lino every AJAX request expects a JSON response.

400 Bad Request : "The request could not be understood by the server
due to malformed syntax. The client SHOULD NOT repeat the request
without modifications." (`w3.org
<https://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html#sec10>`__)

Related changes:

- propagate changes in :xfile:`linoweb.js` to :ref:`extjs6`.
- one test case in Welfare was still failing because Duplicate now
  asks for confirmation.


Kusta Rumma (\*1942-03-12, †2017-04-08)
=========================================

My father in law passed by this morning, at the age of 75.  He had
been in need of care since June 2014 as the result of a `stroke
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stroke>`__.  Before this he had been
living a rich and active life, was a great scientist, a loving husband
and a caring father and grandfather.  Without him we wouldn't live in
Vigala because I would never have dared the project of renovating our
house.  I discovered the Estonian `Wikipedia article about him
<https://et.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kusta_Rumma_(tehnikateadlane)>`__ and
started to update it.

He was the founder of Rumma & Ko OÜ. (Though this was just an
administrative act which he did in the enthusiastic times after the
`Singing revolution
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singing_Revolution>`_ _ in case one of
his children would need it. Neither Ly nor Indrek ever needed it, and
the company stayed inactive until I arrived.)


