:date: 2017-04-10

======================
Monday, April 10, 2017
======================

Political compass
=================

I was just tidying up my inbox, and there was that poll `Green
Politics & Basic Income
<https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfeq1KBCfYI3lSETW5nSTiyPuxZCEPs2XRK5dVU3-JBxSLfPg/viewform?c=0&w=1>`__
led by a student at the University of York (England).  I participated.
That led me to another website (politicalcompass.org) where I
classified as `Economically rather Left and Socially moderatedly
Libertarian
<https://www.politicalcompass.org/analysis2?ec=-8.63&soc=-4.26>`__.
After this I updated my :doc:`/about/cv`.

I might be true that the questions in this compass need a review for
neutrality (they seem to have been designed by a left libertarian),
but still this kind of poll is basically an interesting idea. I
converted the first pages into a demo fixture for
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.polls`.  Which revealed two problems:

- One problem (:ticket:`1719`) is that :mod:`polls
  <lino_xl.lib.polls>` cannot currently specify whether a question is
  optional or mandatory.

- Another problem :ticket:`1720` is that Lino currently would not be
  able to compute a "score" because this would require us to define
  how every answer influences the score. Note that there might be more
  than one "scores" per poll. For the political compass they have two
  scores: (1) "Economic" varies between "Left" and "Right" and (2)
  "Social" which varies between "Libertarian" and "Authoritarian".

Reactivating desktop notifications
==================================

Hamza  worked on :ticket:`1331`.
I merged his `PR <https://github.com/lino-framework/lino/pull/73>`__ into master.



Avanti continued
================

DONE

- Doppelklick auf Johanna --> [Wed Apr 05 14:30:21.939103 2017] [wsgi:error] [pid 18600:tid 140141732259584] UnicodeDecodeError: 'ascii' codec can't decode byte 0xc3 in position 25:

  :ticket:`1709`. This was caused by a missing "from builtins import
  :str" in class:`lino_xl.lib.cv.mixins`. Fixed.
  
- Klientenstatus "Neuantrag" kann *wirklich* raus.
  
- Explorer : cf_level_de : "A2", nicht "Elementare Sprachverwendung"
  
- StudiesByPerson und ExperiencesByPerson : Beginndatum und Enddatum
  unsichtbar. Bemerkungen sichtbar. Neues Feld "Dauer".
  
- Klienten column_names + "*"

- Umfragen (polls) aktivieren.  
  
- :ticket:`1721` Klienten filtern können nach "Kursbedarf" : wer
  mindestens eine Anfrage in einem Kurs dieser Serie hat. Feld
  needed_course kann wahrscheinlich dann raus.

- :ticket:`1701` Feld "In Belgien seit" sollte auch IncompleteDate sein  

- Kartennummer kann weg
  
TODO:

- Mit Johanna testen : Kandidatenlisten für Kursanbieter.
  Erstgespräche.
  
- (à confirmer) Partnernummer wieder in die Excel-Daten rein, damit
  man keine Verknüpfung zwischen Klienten und Einschreibungen machen
  kann.  Stattdessen darf Janina im Kurs nur die Namen ohne Nummer
  sehen.



Duplicate tickets
=================

Imagine 4 tickets A (oldest), B, C and D

Imagine that D is the most general description of the problem.

With our current pointer `duplicate_of` we can for example have this
dependency tree::

    A -> B -> D
    C -> D

        D
       / \
      B   C
     /
    A

We can not have e.g. something like this::  

        D
       / \
      B   C
       \ /
        A


If duplicate_of changes to a LinkType, then we could have it.
But the question is: do we want it?
My current opinion is: no, we don't want it.
But I am open to suggestions.


About calendars
===============

Notes about :ticket:`1722`.

The HITSA calendar shows *activities* while the Raplamaa calender
shows simple *calendar entries*.

The current `start_date` is actually the date of the first automatic
calendar entry to generate.  We should maybe add a field
`overall_start_date` or `activity_start_date` which differs from the
current `start_date`. Actually we already have such a field, it is
called `enrolments_until`. Maybe we might simply rename this field to
"Deadline" and make it the primary sort criteria. At least
MyActivities and Activities should be sorted by this field and not by
`start_date`.

Another need in Lino Vilma might be to store "external" events. User
see these as simple calendar entries. And then we don't want the
overkill of creating an activity line and an activity for it. But we
*do* want to store the responsible organization and a contact
person. For the moment we can create a room for each case. But that's
not enough. It seems that (for Vilma, not for Jane) we want a calendar
entry to inherit from ContactRelated. I am a bit afraid of this
step... to be observed when users start recording real external
events.
