:date: 2017-04-11

=======================
Tuesday, April 11, 2017
=======================

Vilma sprint
============

I started a one-man sprint for Vilma and worked on the following
tickets:

- :ticket:`1745`
- :ticket:`1744`
- :ticket:`1743`
- :ticket:`1692`
- :ticket:`1747`
- :ticket:`1748` cal.PublicEntries shows also private entries
  
Side effects:

- :ticket:`1746`

        

Release in weleup
=================

I did a release in weleup, mainly because of :ticket:`1742`.

Had to migrate their database because of at least one new field
:attr:`cv.Experience.duration_text`.

:ticket:`1742` is fixed. OK.

Investigations for :ticket:`` (keine Systemnotiz nach RefreusClient)

201704-11 21:52:36 INFO actions : 20170411 u'Luc Saffre hat MUSTERFRAU Marth\xe0 (200007) als <b>Abgelehnt</b> klassiert.' '\xd6SHZ ist nicht zust\xe4ndig
\ntt'

>>> from lino import startup
>>> startup('lino_welfare.projects.eupen.settings.demo')
>>> from django.utils import translation
>>> from builtins import str
>>> from lino.api.shell import *
>>> reason = pcsw.RefusalReasons.get_by_value('20')
>>> translation.activate('de')
>>> print reason
ÖSHZ ist nicht zuständig


A *hyggelig* team
=================

Great! While I was sleeping and without a precise instruction, Tonis
did exactly what I most wanted to be done now: repair the test suites.
Tubli poiss! That's the kind of things which indicate to me that we
are a good *hyggelig* family.

Oh, I see that `this one
<https://github.com/lino-framework/book/commit/2ac30ac0b79afb253ad2e0ac5f1ab1bb59fc74f3>`__
contains some useless work because I committed :ticket:`1746` a bit
too quickly.  After my second commit for this ticket it is `failing
again <https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/book/jobs/221209269>`__
and you must partly undo these changes. Sorry, Tonis.  Yes I should
start working in my own development branch. :ticket:`1753`

NB: In `this article
<http://ostbelgiendirekt.be/gehen-sie-hygge-in-die-letzte-woche-vor-weihnachten-116959>`__
I read some time ago some interesting characteristics of a *hyggelig*
family (formulated by `Jessica Alexander <http://thedanishway.com>`__):

- Be honest and upright. Don't try to be somebody else.
- Discuss whenever necessary, but keep cool and don't 
- Act as a team. Everybody does his part, even without being asked.

Isn't it funny to see how much these apply
