:date: 2017-04-14

======================
Friday, April 14, 2017
======================


Government lock-in by Microsoft is alarming
===========================================

Why did I delete my Facebook account?  Why do I refuse to invest my
time and that of my employees into proprietary knowledge?  Because I
believe that the situation is alarming.  If you don't believe me, then
read Adrian Offerman's `article on JoinUp
<https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/community/osor/news/investigative-journalists-government-lock-microsoft-alarming>`_
where he reports that journalists from Investigate Europe interviewed
many competent people and conclude that the dependence on Microsoft:

- causes costs to rise continuously, and blocks technical progress in
  government organisations;
  
- systematically undermines European procurement and competition laws;
  
- gives Microsoft overwhelming political influence, culminating in
  personal interdependence as well as penetration of schools and
  universities; and
  
- puts government IT systems, together with their citizens' personal
  information, at high risk both technologically and politically.
  

Checkin
=======

I checked in my yesterday's work for :ticket:`1765` (Calendar entries
are now ChangeObservable).

I fixed a bug in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.votes.models` which was probably
introduced by Tonis. For example in the following line::

   states[o.state].append(
       ar.obj2html(o, o.user.initials or str(o.user), title=o.state))

The problem is that you use the :meth:`str` (which is necessary), but
you forgot to import `from builtins import str` (which we need for
Python 2to3 compatibility).

I released this to Jane because it was disturbing.

I noticed that the xl repository on Jane had local commits::

    $ git diff origin/master 
    diff --git a/lino_xl/lib/tickets/models.py b/lino_xl/lib/tickets/models.py
    index 513cd1e..c3bf9d7 100644
    --- a/lino_xl/lib/tickets/models.py
    +++ b/lino_xl/lib/tickets/models.py
    @@ -555,7 +555,7 @@ class Ticket(UserAuthored, mixins.CreatedModified,

             """
             if self.user:
    -            yield self.user
    +            yield self.user.get_as_user()
             if issubclass(
                     settings.SITE.user_model,
                     dd.plugins.faculties.end_user_model):
    diff --git a/lino_xl/lib/votes/mixins.py b/lino_xl/lib/votes/mixins.py
    index 0bcd10f..7dc382d 100644
    --- a/lino_xl/lib/votes/mixins.py
    +++ b/lino_xl/lib/votes/mixins.py
    @@ -75,8 +75,8 @@ vote exists.
             self.set_auto_vote(comment.user, VoteStates.invited)

         def set_auto_vote(self, user, state):
    -        # dd.logger.info("20170406 set_auto_vote %s %s", user, state)
             vote = self.get_favourite(user)
    +        dd.logger.info("20170406 set_auto_vote %s %s, current_vote |%s|", user, state, vote)
             if vote is None:
                 create_row(
                     rt.models.votes.Vote, user=user,
    @@ -86,5 +86,7 @@ vote exists.
             """Automatically call :meth:`set_author_votes` after saving.

             """
    +        dd.logger.info("20170406 Pre-super")
             super(Votable, self).after_ui_save(ar, cw)
    +        dd.logger.info("20170406 Post-super")
             self.set_author_votes()
  
I think we can throw them away. I guess that Tonis has been debugging.
I did::

    $ git checkout origin/master 
    Note: checking out 'origin/master'.

    You are in 'detached HEAD' state. You can look around, make experimental
    changes and commit them, and you can discard any commits you make in this
    state without impacting any branches by performing another checkout.

    If you want to create a new branch to retain commits you create, you may
    do so (now or later) by using -b with the checkout command again. Example:

      git checkout -b new_branch_name

    HEAD is now at 86f1afc... fixing #1757

Pointing to a database object
=============================

I reviewed Tonis' work for :ticket:`1739`. Bravo, Tonis! You used the
following expression::
  
    o.obj2href(ar, text=getattr(o.wish_type,'text', _("Wish"))

I optimized the signature of the
:meth:`lino.core.model.Model.obj2href` method and added usage examples
in :ref:`obj2href` so that you should now be able to write::

    o.obj2href(ar, str(o.wish_type or _("Wish")))
   
Note that :meth:`lino.core.model.Model.obj2href` does not not return a
"tuple (text, attributes)" but an etree html element.
