:date: 2017-04-22

========================
Saturday, April 22, 2017
========================

Avanti advances
===============

I worked for :ticket:`1786`.

DONE:

- Ich nenne den neuen Klientenzustand nicht "Sprachtest", sondern
  "Neuzugang". Hauptsächlich weil ich kein englisches Wort für
  "Sprachtest" einfiel.
  
- Reiter "Sprachen" umbenannt nach "Kurse".
  
- Felder "Verfügbarkeit" und "Kursbedarf" raus.

- Neues Feld "Bericht Sprachtest". NB Statt dass nur dieses Feld für
  alle Kollegen bearbeitbar ist, können jetzt momentan wieder alle
  Sozialarbeiter alle Klienten bearbeiten.

- Die BeID-Felder (Kartennummer, Ausstellungsort...) sind jetzt nicht
  mehr schreibgeschützt.

- Den Reiter "Umfragen" habe ich in den Reiter "Entwicklungen" integriert.

- Uploads : hier kann man eingescannte Dateien hochladen. Sichtbar als
  Panel pro Klient inm Reiter "Person", sowie alle meine Uploads im
  Menü "Büro". Lino warnt, wenn ein registrierter Upload ein
  Ablaufdatum hat, das demnächst ausläuft.

- Frühere Wohnsitze : Nur ein Feld "Dauer" statt "Beginndatum" und
  "Enddatum"
  

Technical notes:

I added a new field :attr:`language_notes` ("Bericht Sprachtest") to
:class:`lino_avanti.lib.avanti.models.Client`.  They want that field
to be editable by a given social worker who is responsible for all
clients in that new state. Fieldwise authorship is not directly
supported in Lino.  If you want certain fields to be editable and
others not, then you need to make the whoe record editable and then
"disable" the individual fields.  I added a `manager_roles_required`
which causes every :class:`ClientsUser` to be allowed to edit the
clients of their colleagues. Maybe that solution is even okay for
them. I don't remember that they required Lino to prevent users from
editing clients of their colleagues.

I moved the :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.uploads` to
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.uploads`. Translatable messages that moved from
welfare to xl:

    - "Identifying document"
    - "Expiry warning (unit)"
      _("Expiry warning (value)")
    -  Needed
    - _("%s expires")
    - _("Issued by (Organization)")
    - _("Issued by (Person)")  
      
There is currently a little interdependency between coachings, beid
and uploads. I leave it there because it won't be clear until there's
another application wanting to use one of them.  The order of menu
items (in Office) changed slightly because welfare must come before
uploads and after excerpts.

Vilma
=====

I did some Estonian translations for :ref:`vilma` in Lino and XL, then
deployed the newest version to their production site. Vilma is now
very simplistic: just a contact manager with a skills feature. No
ticket management, no calendar, no meetings. This is the result of
Tanel's and my observations with local people. We first try to get
them use this simplistic Vilma, and maybe later add features. Special
thanks to Ülle, Maie and Kaily.

Welfare
=======

I did :ticket:`1291` and deployed it to the production site.  The
enrolment states for Welfare are defined in
:mod:`lino_welfare.chatelet.lib.courses.models`. They do
not want the state "trying", so I changed the label of this state to
"Never came"::

    EnrolmentStates.trying.text = _("Never came")

That's certainly not perfect, I first tried to remove it, but that
caused a problem because we have a virtual field
:attr:`lino_xl.lib.courses.models.Course.trying` which uses it. One
day we will need to tidy up there: create those virtual fields
automatically from the EnrolmentStates choicelist.
