:date: 2017-05-08

===================
Monday, May 8, 2017
===================

Topics
======

I had an interesting article in my inbox and though that I would
quickly note this in my internal blog in :ref:`amici`.  Basically it
worked, but it caused a little chain reaction.

- I opened :ticket:`1819` (Handling blog entries copied from Internet)
  and worked on it.  Blog entries are now bleached. And then how to
  display them in the dashboard.
  
  I boldy changed the behaviour of
  :func:`lino.utils.soup.truncate_comment`: truncate_comment now never
  returns more than one paragraph.  I am not sure whether this is what
  we really want, but let's observe it.
  
- While I was there I did :ticket:`1650` (Multiple topics per ticket).
  This required :ticket:`1822`
  (New feature : Writable virtual foreignkey fields)

I checked in my work though some tests are still failing.


UnicodeError
============

:ticket:`1825` was a subtle one.  In order to understand it, I had to
patch my :file:`/usr/lib/python2.7/StringIO.py`. I replaced::

    if self.buflist:
        self.buf += ''.join(self.buflist)

by this::            

    if self.buflist:
        try:
          self.buf += ''.join(self.buflist)
        except UnicodeError:
          raise Exception("LS 20170508 Failed to join %r" % self.buflist)

It was happening in :ref:`noi.specs.care`. There was this code:
     
>>> def show_votes(pk):
...     obj = tickets.Ticket.objects.get(pk=pk)
...     print(obj)

The problem disappeared when I raplaced the third line by::

...     print(str(obj))

But why? No good explanation so far. I guess that it has to do with
the `python_2_unicode_compatible` hack.

NB while exploring this, I replaced several instances of "from
builtins import str" to "import six ; str = six.text_type".  I believe
that this is better because certain third-party libraries don't know
about the `newstr` class (:ticket:`1751`).
