:date: 2017-05-23

=====================
Tuesday, May 23, 2017
=====================

lino@ria
========

Today Tonis and I (mostly I) talked one hour about Lino to about 15
employees of the RIA (Information System Authority of Estonia which
"coordinates the development and administration of the state’s
information system, organises activities related to information
security, and handles the security incidents that have occurred in
Estonian computer networks.", more on their `website
<https://www.ria.ee/en/about-estonian-information-system-authority.html>`__)

The RIA is not planning any Lino project and there was no concrete
goal behind that talk, but I hope that the attendees remember Lino if
they hear about some possible partner, and that they understood a bit
more why free software is so important.

Lino and accounting stuff
=========================

We also had a meeting with Taavi from `Kuldpliiats
<http://kuldpliiats.ee>`__, an accountant service provider.

Currently I do myself all the accounting work of Rumma & Ko (sales,
purchase, bank statements, tax and wages declarations, annual tax
report), and I still use TIM for this work.  And it is time to convert
to :ref:`cosi`. But I don't want to do this alone.  I want to find an
accountant who is able and motivated to provide accounting service to
Rumma & Ko using this database.

Taavi confirmed what I knew before: from an investor's point of view
the :ref:`cosi` project doesn't make sense.  It is a crazy project.
Especially in Estonia where they have e-arveldaja (an almost free
accounting application for small enterprise) and at least 10 good
accounting applications. In order to have a chance in Estonia we would
need to add specific features like sending and receiving invoices
using a `standard <http://www.pangaliit.ee/et/arveldused/e-arve>`__
which is going to become mandatory in a few years, or the digital data
transfer of wages and tax declarations.

This meeting seems to tell me that I should give up doing accounting
myself.  Buying this as a service will cost me maybe 200 € per year
and will save me at least 10 hours of work.

I agree that accounting stuff would be quite a challenge for Tonis. He
has no experience on the field, and from my own experience I can say
that it took me at least five years before I started to love
accounting.

But I don't like the idea of giving this up.  Accounting stuff isn't
actually *that* difficult. I reviewed the following documents:

- `Guidelines for Description of Estonian Electronic
  Invoice. <http://www.pangaliit.ee/images/files/E-arve/Guidelines_for_Description_of_Estonian_Electronic_Invoice_%20ver_%201_0_5_ENG.pdf>`__

- `E-arved ja DVK <https://www.ria.ee/ee/e-arved.html>`__

All this is so easy! At least technically. Yes of course the devil is
in the details, and of course it will cost much more than a few
hundred euro if Taavi (or some other accounting professional) is going
to do our accounting with Lino.  But I continue to believe that it is
worth a try. Eat your own dogfood.

Another question is whether Taavi is the right partner.  He seems
competent, but we need somebody who believes at least a bit in this
project and who is ready to invest some time to explain to Tonis what
needs to be done.

Next step is to install a plain :ref:`cosi` production site for our
accounting, import accounts chart and initial balances.  That's a work
which I must do. And then show it to Taavi and ask him again whether
he feels able to provide accounting service to Rumma & Ko using this
database.  It is normal that he couldn't answer that question because
he didn't see any data.  And if Taavi says no, then I can reuse the
site for asking other candidates.

IOW: No, I don't give up accounting stuff.
