:date: 2017-05-25

======================
Thursday, May 25, 2017
======================

I finally continued :ticket:`1793` (SEPA Payment Initiation
(Zahlungsaufträge)).  The pain001.xml template was alread used to
generate an XML file from each payment order, but that file still
contained template commands from TIM and therefore produced invalid
XML files.(Yes, I simply copied the TIM template because this is what
they are currently using, and because this file contained already
quite some know-how.  Lino now validates these XML files. And it was a
joy to convert them because I used test-driven development in
:ref:`tera.specs`.

This ticket is required for the spz project (:ref:`tera`).  They want
to get started with accounting functionality first and leave the
therapeutic part currently in TIM. Which might cause a bit of a
challenge when they want to move also that second part to Lino.  We
decided to do it in two steps because an accounting solution is more
urgent and the therapeutic functionality will probably get a big
redesign when they will merge with another therapeutic center in 2018.

:mod:`lino_xl.lib.sepa` now injects a field `sepa_account` into
Journal.

The test suites of book, voga and welfare needed adaptation because
some details changed in the demo fixtures: for example Rumma & Ko is
now the :attr:`site_company` for all demo databases.  Or payment
orders are now being generated only for partners who have a bank
account. This is done using a new filter parameter
:attr:`lino_xl.lib.ledger.ExpectedMovements.show_sepa` for
      

:class:`SuggestionsByPaymentOrder` sets the new
parameter to `yes`.

