:date: 2017-06-28

========================
Wednesday, June 28, 2017
========================

Datenimport aus TIM
===================

Soll ich die doppelten Coachings rausfiltern? --> Könnte ich machen,
aber das würde bei der Analyse mit DD stören.

Muss ich die Analysekonten aus TIM importieren? --> Nicht nötig, das
sind nicht viele. Aber hier eine Liste für meine demo fixtures::

    1      │FUNKTIONSKOSTEN
       1100│Personalkosten Therapeuten
       1200│Fahrtkosten
       1300│Weiterbildung
       1400│Sonstige Therapiekosten
    2      │VERWALTUNGSKOSTEN
     21    │Personalkosten Sekretariat
       2110│Personalkosten
       2120│Fahrtkosten
       2130│Weiterbildung
     22    │Unkosten Sekretariat
       2201│Miete Gebäude
       2202│Mietnebenkosten
       2203│Telefon & Internet
       2204│Büromaterial
       2205│Informatik
       2206│Buchhaltung
       2208│Sonstiges                        
       2209│Bankkosten
       2210│Außerordentliche Aufwendungen    
       2211│Abschreibungen                   
     23    │Unkosten Verwaltungsrat
       2310│Sitzungsgelder
       2320│Fahrtkosten
    3      │INVESTITIONEN
       3000│Investitionen
    4      │PROJEKT 1
       4110│Personalkosten
       4120│Fahrtkosten
       4130│Weiterbildung               
    5      │PROJEKT 2
       5110│Personalkosten
       5120│Fahrtkosten
       5130│Weiterbildung
       5140│Funktionskosten



VAT account and returnable VAT account
======================================

Working on :ticket:`1933` (MWSt-Erklärung mit Lino).  Lydia helped
me to understand a missing feature in Lino regarding VAT: Lino is not
yet able to handle what I would currently call "returnable VAT on
intracommunal operations". That is, when you buy something abroad,
let's say a Belgian VAT-registered company buys a chair for 100€ in
Germany, then the German vendor will not perceive any VAT. But when
registering the invoice, our Belgian company must register a computed
VAT amount of 21€ (21% of the base amount) at two accounts: first as a
"due VAT" and also as a "returnable VAT".

Replace :meth:`TradeType.get_vat_account` method by
two new database fields
:attr:`VatRule.vat_account` and 
:attr:`VatRule.vat_returnable_account`.
      
This also removes the `xxx_vat_account` fields (one per trade type)
from :class:`SiteConfig` which were used until now for storing the
default value::

    # sales_vat_account='411000',  # vat paid 411000, 472100
    # purchases_vat_account='451000',  # due vat 451000, 472200
      
The :mod:`minimal_ledger <lino_xl.lib.accounting.fixtures.minimal_ledger>`
and :mod:`euvatrates <lino_xl.lib.vat.fixtures.euvatrates>` fixtures
are now interdependent and use a common set of names defined in
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.accounting.accounts`.

VAT declarations
================

The VAT declarations module had been inactive since
:blogref:`20160229` because it had been written before the current
implementation of accounting periods.

Now I reactivated it and moved it from :ref:`cosi` to
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.declarations`. The proof of concept looks
promising. Of course there will be now quite some work fiddling with
the gory details of VAT classes, VAT rules, VAT regimes, VAT rates,
how to summarize them into VAT declarations and how to make all these
things configurable.
