:date: 2017-07-20

=======================
Thursday, July 20, 2017
=======================


Skype for Linux wants to update, but Ubuntu Software Updater says
"This requires installing packages from unauthenticated sources." and
the details say:

| Changes for skypeforlinux versions:
| Installed version: 5.3.0.1
| Available version: 5.4.0.1
| This update does not come from a source that supports changelogs.

https://askubuntu.com/questions/578292/software-update-this-requires-installing-packages-from-unauthenticated-sources

I "fixed" this as follows::

    $ sudo apt remove skypeforlinux
    $ sudo apt install skypeforlinux
    [sudo] password for luc: 
    Reading package lists... Done
    Building dependency tree       
    Reading state information... Done
    The following packages will be upgraded:
      skypeforlinux
    1 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
    Need to get 53.9 MB of archives.
    After this operation, 8,179 kB of additional disk space will be used.
    WARNING: The following packages cannot be authenticated!
      skypeforlinux
    Install these packages without verification? [y/N] y


New tasks for Tera
==================

I met with Lydia and opened :ticket:`1976`.

DONE:
  
- VAT declarations must not select the observed period by a date range
  and the entry date of the vouchers but by their accounting period.
  Muss sie aufs Belegdatum schauen oder aufs Eingabedatum?  --> Weder
  noch; sie muss auf die Buchungsperiode schauen.

- For purchase invoices the payment_term is not needed per invoice
  since anyway they serve only for computing a default value of
  due_date. But for sales it is different, that's why we currently
  leave the field also for purchases.

- The display text of a countries.Place is currently "Eupen (None)"
  which is stupid. I added a new field
  :attr:`lino_xl.lib.countries.Place.show_type` whose default value is
  `False`.

- :ticket:`1975` is a duplicate of :ticket:`492` and goes to Tonis.

- tim2lino must import `PAR->Name2` as well. For example partner
  0150430 (ÖSHZ Eupen) is now duplicate with lot of others which
  differ only by that field.
  
TODO:

- Übersetzung von "Entry date" muss sein "Eingabedatum", nicht
  "Buchungsdatum"

- MWSt-Erklärung zeigt überall 0.

- how to use tim2lino for importing master data without loosing
  invoices.

- "Partnerlisten" statt "Therapeutische Gruppen" ist irritierend.

- tim2lino : TIM partners of type L no longer import them as
  lists.List (and PLP of type 80 as lists.Memeber but as
  courses.Course and courses.Enrolment. courses.pupil_model must be
  Coaching.


