:date: 2017-07-26

========================
Wednesday, July 26, 2017
========================

I continued to work for :ticket:`1874`.
Today I will deploy it to their production site
and analyze them with Lydia.


The debugging messages of style :message:`18072017,
h:|courses.EnrolmentsByCourseHandle|, hname:|_lino_ui_handle| #1955`
introduced by Tonis for :ticket:`1955` in :mod:`lino.core.actors` and
:mod:`lino.core.kernel` are disturbing for the moment.  I guess that
the "right" way in this situation is to change them to debug level in
the code and then use logging config on jane in order to set log level
to DEBUG for these modules. But for now I just commented them out
manually on the site's copy of the Lino repo.  This is an exceptional
situation, let's not waste our time on this right now.


Once more (as already :doc:`0623`) we have the challenge that we want
to re-import master data (partners, clients, courses, enrolments) from
TIM but do not want to loose accounting data. Here is the general
approach:

- make snapshot a (before upgrade)
  
- pull.sh
  
- `django run a/restore.py` and repair manual migration issues:
    
    - "TypeError: 'client_state' is an invalid keyword argument for
      this function" (File "20170726/a/restore.py", line 546, in
      create_contacts_partner)
    - "TypeError: 'event_policy_id' is an invalid keyword argument for
      this function" (File "20170726/a/restore.py", line 1116, in
      create_tera_client)


- make snapshot b (after restoring a into new version)

- Run `./init_demo.sh` in order to (correctly) re-import all data from
  TIM. This will destroy all bookings which were already done.

- make snapshot c (with correct partners but without bookings)

- copy the following files from b to c (overriding files in c)::

    finan_*.py
    sales_*.py
    ledger_*.py
    accounts_*.py
    products_*.py
    vat_*.py
    ana_*.py

- Run `django run c/restore.py`


Session log::

    $ a
    $ ./make_snapshot.sh
    $ mkdir 20170726
    $ mv snapshot 20170726/a
    $ ./pull.sh
    $ python manage.py run a/restore.py
    


