:date: 2017-07-27

=======================
Thursday, July 27, 2017
=======================


Today I redefined the meanings of :attr:`entry_date` and
:attr:`voucher_date` of :class:`lino_xl.lib.ledger.Voucher`. Because
they were a bit unclear and messy.  What counts is the `entry_date`
(i.e. the date of the ledger entry, IOW where this voucher should
appear in the ledger).  The `voucher_date` is actually used only for
information and only in public administrations where they want that
information for some reason I don't recall right now.

Attention, this will require a data migration for production sites
with existing data (e.g. :ref:`eiche`) where both `entry_date` and
`voucher_date` should be set to `voucher_date` (and existing values
in entry_date are worthless and will be lost).



Lino Tera continued
===================

Here is the new list of tasks for me after my meeting with Lydia
yesterday (:ticket:`1982`).

DONE:

- Eingabedatum (wann ich es eingegeben habe) interessiert uns
  nicht. Pro Beleg haben wir jetzt das Buchungsdatum (entry_date), und
  ein eventuelles Belegdatum (voucher_date) ist höchstens noch zur
  Info irgendwo im Hintergrund.
  
- MWSt-Erklärung hat zwei Felder "Buchungsperiode". Labels spezifizieren.
 
TODO:

- We managed to reproduce :ticket:`1975` (Daten im oberen Teil des
  Dokuments verschwinden wenn man registriert): Neue EKR erstellen. An
  Rumma. Im Betreff "test" eingeben. Nicht speichern, sondern sofort
  unten ein Konto 610211 eingeben, Betrag inkl. 123€, und dann
  Registrieren klicken. NB passiert nur, wenn es eine soeben erstellte
  EKR ist.
  
- Buchungsperiode soll laut BELEGdatum sein. Aber man muss
  Buchungsperiode manuell ändern können. Falls BP abgeschlossen ist,
  sollte Lino sie nicht mehr vorschlagen.
  Data checker mit fix.
  
- Kontenbewegungen nach Buchungsperiode filtern können.
  
- Alle EKR sind im Q4 verbucht, das ist falsch.
  
- Testen, ob MWSt-Erklärung für Q1 jetzt funktioniert,
  
- Analytic Accounts Balance 2017 ist leer, obschon EKR existieren.
  
- Journal "Zahlungsaufträge" fehlt noch.
  
- Man kann Einschreibungen nicht bestätigen.
  
- Termin Familiengruppe machen und Anwesenheiten erfassen können.

LATER:

- Layout EKR noch zu optimieren. Zahlungsbedingung kann
  raus.

- Wenn ich Belegdatum ändere, sollte er Zahlungziel
  anpassen. (unwichtig, weil es im insert_layout machbar ist)
  
- Was passiert wenn jemand umzieht? Momentan ist es so, dass man auch
  beim Konsultieren einer alten Aktivität die neue Adresse sieht. Die
  alte Adresse könnte man sich bei Bedarf als Bemerkung reinschreiben.
  
- Und dann kommt natürlich die Frage, wie das alles fakturiert werden soll.




TypeError: __init__() takes exactly 4 arguments (2 given)
=========================================================

Intermetzzo. I received an error message from a production site where
a bug caused an exception when trying to render as JSON a date with a
year below 1900:

>>> import datetime
>>> from lino import startup
>>> startup('lino_book.projects.min1.settings')
>>> from lino.utils.jsgen import py2js
>>> print(py2js(datetime.date(2017, 7, 27)))
"27.07.2017"
>>> print(py2js(datetime.date(217, 7, 27)))  #doctest: +SKIP
Traceback (most recent call last):
  ...
TypeError: __init__() takes exactly 4 arguments (2 given)

After the fix it works:

>>> print(py2js(datetime.date(17, 7, 27)))
"27.07.17"


They didn't yet complain, but I had a feeling that I should dive into
this.  I wrote the following :manage:`run` script on their production
server::

    from lino.api.shell import *
    print(isip.Contract.objects.filter(applies_from__year__lt=1900))
    print(isip.Contract.objects.filter(applies_until__year__lt=1900))
    print(isip.Contract.objects.filter(date_issued__year__lt=1900))
    print(isip.Contract.objects.filter(date_decided__year__lt=1900))


And indeed, the output was::
  
    [Contract #340 ('ISIP#340 (Yamina XXXX)')]
    []
    []
    []

And indeed, it was not possible to show that contract ISIP#340
through the web interface. I ran another script to repair it::

    from lino.api.shell import *
    obj = isip.Contract.objects.filter(applies_from__year__lt=1900)[0]
    print(obj.applies_from)
    0217-05-18
    obj.applies_from = obj.applies_from.replace(year=2017)


Now that the bug is fixed, it is again possible to display dates
before 1900.

I didn't deploy that fix to their production site since this is
probably a rather rare case. No need to panic.

I started to write a page :ref:`lino.specs.jsgen` in the Developers
Guide which tests that bug.


API change about current user type
==================================

I continued a bit on the new :ref:`lino.specs.jsgen` page because it
seems to be a good place for exploring and documenting questions like
"What is a table handle and why do we need it?".

I added a new method :meth:`lino.modlib.users.UserType.context` which
returns a context manager so you can now write::

  with UserTypes.admin.context():
      # some code

For this I moved the `_for_user_profile` global variable and the logic
for handling it from :mod:`lino.utils.jsgen` to
:mod:`lino.modlib.users.utils`.

Instead of saying::
  
    from lino.utils import jsgen
    if jsgen._for_user_profile ...

you must now say::  

  from lino.modlib.users.utils import get_user_profile
  if get_user_profile() ...
    
I adapted also :ref:`extjs6` and added a test case there because this
failure was not being detected.

With all this I still didn't find a satisfying answer to the question
"What is a table handle and why do we need it?"  so far. Maybe this is
code left behind by history which can be simplified now.  Deserves
more work. But for now I abandon it because customers are waiting...

Adapt the test suites
=====================

I took some more time for getting the complete test suite pass again.
Which made me discover :ticket:`1985`. I investigated more than an
hour. Something is wrong there, but I still cannot even say whether it
is just a trivial problem or something fundamental. Not urgent since
the Welfare accounting project is currently waiting for political
decision.

I removed the disturbing :ticket:`1173` debug messages in kernel and
actors.
