:date: 2017-07-29

=======================
Saturday, July 29, 2017
=======================

Upgrade for :ref:`spz`
======================

I deployed my changes for :ticket:`1982` to their production site.

And again, as already :doc:`0623` and :doc:`0726`, we want to
re-import master data from TIM without loosing accounting data.  This
time it is mainly because we want to have the legacy `PAR->IdPar`
numbers as the `ref` of each `Course`.

Here is the general approach:

- make snapshot a (before upgrade)
- pull.sh
- `python manage.py run a/restore.py` and repair manual migration issues
- make snapshot b (after restoring a into new version)
- Run `./init_demo.sh` in order to (correctly) re-import all data from
  TIM. This will destroy all bookings which were already done.
- make snapshot c (with correct partners but without bookings)
- copy the following files from b to c (overriding files in c)::

    finan_*.py 
    sales_*.py
    ledger_*.py
    accounts_*.py
    products_*.py
    vat_*.py
    ana_*.py
- `python manage.py run c/restore.py` to put it all together.

I wrote a run script for manually converting some of their voucher
dates.

I fixed some exceptions which occured when
:meth:`Movement.get_mti_leaf` returned None. This situation was
exceptional, it came because the VAT declaration was lost during data
migration, but its movements were there.

TODO: write a data checker for Movement which detects this and removes
the movements.
  

Miscellaneous
=============

- TravisCI `build #271
  <https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/welfare/builds/258708897>`__
  failed. I updated the :xfile:`.travis.yml` file: no more
  need to support Django 1.9 and 1.10. And Python 3 is now 3.6 (no
  need for 3.5 and 3.4). Same for book and other projects.

Lino too big for ReadTheDocs?
=============================

The builds on readthedocs currently fail because :ref:`book` is too
big: `latest
<https://readthedocs.org/projects/lino/builds/5758472/>`__ was simply
"Killed" and `stable
<https://readthedocs.org/projects/lino/builds/5758473/>`__ "exited due
to time out (took 897 seconds)".

I guess that if I file an issue, the readthedocs team will tell us to
split the book into smaller parts.  But I don't see how we could do
that.  The two biggest beasts of the book (:ref:`specs` and
:ref:`api`) are recursively interdependent: module docstrings usually
refer to the specs page which describes them, and specs usually refer
to elements of the API.  And note that the Lino specs are far from
being complete.  And note that we plan to include Voga and Welfare
into the book as well.  Hmm...

