:date: 2017-07-31

=====================
Monday, July 31, 2017
=====================

I have a reproducible variant of :ticket:`352` in :ref:`tera`:

- runserver in :mod:`lino_book.projects.lydia`
- log in as robin
- Select :menuselection:`Activities --> Individual therapies`
- Double click on the first line "ÕUNAPUU Õie (166)"
- Switch to "Enrolments" tab
- Click the "Confirm" action in the table of enrolments

You get the following error message:

    **Bad Request**

    Exception: ParameterStore of LayoutHandle for lino.core.layouts.ParamsLayout on lino_xl.lib.courses.desktop.Enrolments expects a list of 6 values but got 10: [u'', u'', u'', u'', u'', u'', u'', u'', u'', u'']

and the server log says::


    AjaxExceptionResponse Exception: ParameterStore of LayoutHandle for lino.core.layouts.ParamsLayout on lino_xl.lib.courses.desktop.Enrolments expects a list of 6 values but got 10: [u'', u'', u'', u'', u'', u'', u'', u'', u'', u'']

    in request GET /api/courses/EnrolmentsByTherapy/58?_dc=1501471612563&pv=&pv=&pv=&pv=&pv=&pv=&pv=&pv=&pv=&pv=&an=wf1&sr=58
    TRACEBACK:
      File "/site-packages/django/core/handlers/base.py", line 185, in _get_response
        response = wrapped_callback(request, *callback_args, **callback_kwargs)
      File "/site-packages/django/views/generic/base.py", line 68, in view
        return self.dispatch(request, *args, **kwargs)
      File "/py27/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/views/generic/base.py", line 88, in dispatch
        return handler(request, *args, **kwargs)
      File "/lino/lino/modlib/extjs/views.py", line 465, in get
        ar = ba.request(request=request, selected_pks=[pk])
      File "/lino/lino/core/boundaction.py", line 78, in request
        return self.actor.request(*args, **kw)
      File "/lino/lino/core/dbtables.py", line 350, in request
        return TableRequest(**kw)
      File "/lino/lino/core/requests.py", line 1109, in __init__
        BaseRequest.__init__(self, **kw)
      File "/lino/lino/core/requests.py", line 211, in __init__
        self.setup(**kw)
      File "/lino/lino/core/tablerequest.py", line 350, in setup
        ActionRequest.setup(self, **kw)
      File "/lino/lino/core/requests.py", line 1167, in setup
        pv.update(ps.parse_params(request))
      File "/lino/lino/core/store.py", line 928, in parse_params
        self, len(self.param_fields), len(pv), pv))

    [31/Jul/2017 03:26:52] "GET /api/courses/EnrolmentsByTherapy/58?_dc=1501471612563&pv=&pv=&pv=&pv=&pv=&pv=&pv=&pv=&pv=&pv=&an=wf1&sr=58 HTTP/1.1" 400 208



The problem was a tough one.

We do not want `Lino.run_row_action` to add the parameter values of
its requesting panel when it is being run from within a "non-main
context". A "non-main context" is currently only in
:meth:`lino.core.actors.Actor.slave_as_html_meth` (i.e. when
:attr:`slave_grid_format <lino.core.actors.Actor.slave_grid_format>`
is ``html``.  We now have a new attribute
:attr:`lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.is_on_main_actor` per request.

Note that currently we also don't pass the mk and mt paramneters
(master key and master type). I think that this is correct.

But all this is to be observed.

Later I tried whether this fixes :ticket:`1989`. But it didn't. I
continued to search.

Side effects:

- I saw that :meth:`lino.core.utils.InstanceAction.request_from` still
  used the deprecated :meth:`lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.setup_from`
  method. I converted it.

- I saw that actually we must explicitly specify
  `is_on_main_actor=False` on most application code below
  :meth:`get_slave_summary`.  Hm... not very nice...

But still no fix for  :ticket:`1989`
Here is the sequence to reproduce it:

- runserver in :mod:`lino_book.projects.adg`
- Log in as robin
- Contacts --> Clients
- Double click on the first client, click on the "Trends" tab.
- In the Responses panel, under "Political compass" click on the green
  plus to create a new response
- Confirm the insert window unchanged. Lino creates a Response object
  with default answers and displays it.
- Click some answer in the first question ("1) If economic
  globalisation is inevitable, ...".

Note that the error comes only immediately after insert. The only
difference is that after an insert the requesting panel is null.

After insert::

  javascript:Lino.polls.Responses.toggle_choice(null,false,14,{ "fv": [ 2, 32 ] })

On existing record::  

  javascript:Lino.polls.Responses.toggle_choice("ext-comp-2445",false,14,{ "fv": [ 2, 32 ] })

  
But that observation doesn't explain. I activated a few console.log
calls in `linoweb.js` for debugging (all marked `20170731`).

But for today I abandon...  I checked in everything. 
