:date: 2017-08-03

========================
Thursday, August 3, 2017
========================

Lino Tera Session 1
===================

I worked on :ticket:`1995`:

DONE:

- Wenn ich versuche, das Journal EKR auszudrucken, kommt "Bitte
  warten" (und auf dem Server ein traceback ImportError: No module
  named 'unohelper')
- MWSt-Erklärung : Ihr habt eine "Déclaration spéciale", die hat
  andere Felder als die normale MWSt-Erklärung.
- MWSt-Erklärung : du musst unterscheiden können zwischen
  Dienstleistungen und Waren
- MWSt-Erklärung : man sieht die Zahlen nicht immer sofort sondern
  muss manchmal zuerst Refresh klicken
- ZKBC fehlt im Menü
- In "Berichte" habe ich zweimal "Saldenliste Lieferanten" und keinmal
  Saldenliste Kunden".
- Datenimport : wenn ich auf einen Haushalt gehe, kann ich nicht die
  Aktivitäten pro Haushalt sehen. Statt wie bisher zwei Felder
  "Klient" und "Haushalt" pro Aktivität haben wir dort jetzt ein
  einziges Feld Partner. Anders als bei :ref:`voga` bezahlen in
  :ref:`tera` nicht die Teilnehmer sondern der Partner einer
  Aktivität.  Der *Partner* einer Aktivität ist derjenige, um den es
  geht. Normalerweise ist das auch derjenige, der bezahlt (es sei denn
  der Partner hat eine Fakturationsadresse). Es könnte auch
  Aktivitäten ohne Partner geben (bei denen jeder Teilnehmer bezahlt),
  und der Partner kann z.B. eine Organisation sein.

TODO:  
  
- When I set the VAT regime of an invoice to :attr:`intracom
  <lino_xl.lib.vat.VatRegimes.intracom>` and then start adding items
  in :class:`lino_xl.lib.vat.ItemsByInvoice`, then Lino still uses the
  VAT rule for :attr:`normal <lino_xl.lib.vat.VatRegimes.normal>`
  because the upper part has not been saved. Lino should ask to submit
  the detail form before allowing to edit any cell of a slave grid.
 
- Zahlungsziel : [u"Invalid value for this field (invalid literal for
  int() with base 10: '27/02/2017')."] kommt wenn ich Ctrl-S in einem
  Datumsfeld eingebe.

- When I create a new Journal, the main menu gets updated only after a
  server restart. Because the menu is cached somewhere.
  
- Datenimport : z.B. Kötters-Kalpers steht 2x als Haushalt

The remaining TODO are lesse urgent. I did a deploy to their
production site and some testing, then invited Lydia to a next field
visit.
  
  
New API feature
===============

It is now possible to specify the :attr:`detail_layout
<lino.core.actors.Actor.detail_layout>` of an actor as a string in the
form ``'foos.FooDetail'``.  Or more abstractly if the
:attr:`detail_layout` is (1) a string and (2) that string contains *a
dot ('.')* **and** *no newlines*, then Lino now takes this as the name
of the class to be used.  If it is a string with at least one newline
(or, special case, no newline but also no dot) then we have our old
rule that it is taken as the `main` of a default :class:`DetailLayout
<lino.core.layouts.DetailLayout>`.

For example::

    class Courses(dd.Table):
        ...
        detail_layout = 'courses.CourseDetail'

        
This new feature was necessary because otherwise it could become very
tricky to override the detail layout in an extended plugin. Until now
you had to define a new class and to assign an instance of that class
to every actor which uses it.  But e.g. in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.courses`
we have a lot of subclasses of the :class:`Courses` actor.

Miscellaneous
=============

- The default value for `default_vat_regime` is now ``"normal"`` and
  no longer ``"private"``.

- I am still fiddling with the different sorting orders of
  :class:`lino_xl.lib.ledger.Movements` table.  The challenge here is
  that the order is important when testing the output in a doctest. But
  :meth:`get_wanted_movements` does not yield the movements in a
  constant order because it uses a dict to group them.

- I explored some error messages from readthedocs.org and travis.
  Posted an `issue on RTF <https://github.com/rtfd/readthedocs.org/issues/3031>`__.

On Travis I had "There are known rendering problems with Cairo ..."
and wanted to search for this in Jane. But Jane didn't know.  I then
used `find-grep` in my blog and found :doc:`0406`. Yes of course, Jane
does't read my developer blog. And it still seems that I won't get
used to writing comments in Jane instead writing my blog. To be
meditated. Jane should read my blog and store it in the database.  But
how? One idea is that Jane could read my blog's RSS feed.  Another
idea is that Jane would herself use Sphinx to read the source files of
my blog.

I updated the Sphinx in my developer machine from 1.6.2 to 1.6.3 to
reproduce and remove a deprecation warning.



Foster mothers
==============

I thought to give :ticket:`1994` to Tonis, but while reproducing the
problem to describe it I saw the explanation and fixed it:

- go eupen and runserver
- log in as robin
- :menuselection:`Contacts --> Clients`
- double-click on Bernd Brecht. Activate the "Human Links" tab.
- create a household as married couple with Charlotte Collard
- In that household (households.SiblingsByPerson) add a third row with
  person Erwin Emontspool as child.
- Click Refresh on the master record (Bernd Brecht). Lino says (in
  :class:`humanlinks.LinksByHuman`) correctly that "Bernd is Father of
  Erwin EMONTSPOOL (22 years)".
- Now go to Charlotte. Lino says that 
  "Charlotte is
  Foster mother of Erwin EMONTSPOOL (22 years)".
  This is wrong. Charlotte should be mother, not foster mother.

The bug was in :meth:`lino_xl.lib.humanlinks.Link.check_autocreate`.

Closing the detail window after deleting a database object
==========================================================

I investigated on :ticket:`1997` but did not yet find a solution.

- goto :mod:`lino_book.projects.adg` and `:manage:`runserver`
- log in as robin  
- Go to client *Aátif Abdoo*. Double-click and open the Family tab.
- Note the following text in MembersByPerson panel:

      ABDOO Aátif (177) is
      ☐ Head of household in Aátif & Ahláám Abdoo-Aboud (Legal cohabitation)

- Click on the "Aátif & Ahláám Abdoo-Aboud (Legal cohabitation)" link
  to open the detil window of that household.

- Delete the household (which will also delete all memberships in
  cascade) .

- Instead of closing the detail window after having deleted the
  household, Lino now displays another unrelated household.  That's
  the problem.

More background: In :xfile:`linoweb.js` there is a message for this
case which says "No more records to display. Detail window has been
closed." but obviously the condition is not being detected here.  This
function is being called in :meth:`after_delete` when there is no
navinfo available.  But the link (generated by
:meth:`lino.core.rendered.JsRenderer.goto_instance`) is
`Lino.households.Households.detail.run("ext-comp-1180",{ "record_id":
186 })` and does not contain the information that we want to suppress
navigation. I guess that this info must get added there as an
additional status attribute. Wooa... that's for when we finished
migrating to ExtJS 6.


Lino Tera Session 2
===================

After speaking with Lydia I continued working on :ticket:`1995`.

- I found and fixed the bug in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.tim2lino.spzloader`
  which probably caused duplicate households in their database.

- There were still some minor (but difficult to find) bugs in the VAT
  declaration which lead to wrong numbers. Now it looks correct. I
  updated :ref:`xl.bevats` and added more tests.

Both items are to be tested tonight on their server.
