:date: 2017-08-25

=======================
Friday, August 25, 2017
=======================

"Your Reference" vs "External Reference"
========================================

It took me more than three hours to fix that stupid failure which I
discovered yesterday in the welfare test suite.  It was just a problem
with string translation, not in the Lino kernel.  The
:class:`lino_xl.lib.finan.FinancialVoucherItem` mixin defines a field
named `remark` whose `verbose_name` was "External reference". And that
string was being translated to German (a) by "Ihr Zeichen" in XL
and (b) by "Externe Referenz" in Welfare.  Now it is "Your reference"
(Ihr Zeichen) in XL and "External reference" (Externe Referenz) in
Welfare.  It's understandable that Lino didn't work as expected.

Missing help_text for Client.has_esf
====================================

Another failure was in :ref:`welfare.specs.esf`::

    $ go welfare
    $ python setup.py test -s tests.SpecsTests.test_esf
    ...
    File ".../welfare/docs/specs/esf.rst", line 237, in esf.rst
    Failed example:
        show_fields(rt.models.pcsw.Client, 'has_esf')
    Expected:
        =============== ============== =========================================================
         Internal name   Verbose name   Help text
        --------------- -------------- ---------------------------------------------------------
         has_esf         ESF data       Whether Lino should make ESF summaries for this client.
        =============== ============== =========================================================
    Got:
        =============== ============== ===========
         Internal name   Verbose name   Help text
        --------------- -------------- -----------
         has_esf         ESF data
        =============== ============== ===========
   
This one was simply caused by ticket :ticket:`2016`.  I had to run
`inv clean` and `inv bd` because the Welfare :xfile:`help_exts.py`
files on my machine had not yet been re-generated with the new
simplified keys. You need to run `inv clean bd` in all related
projects for this.


Advancing in Avanti
===================

I finally found time and worked on a series of tickets for
:ref:`avanti` project. Here is (in German) the list of requested
changes:

- Anmahnungen : wenn ein Klient 2x unentschuldigt oder mehr als 10%
  der Gesamtstundenzahl gefehlt hat, dann soll Lino dem Begleiter das
  mitteilen. Es muss auch einen Workflow geben, wo der Begleiter
  notiert, was er mit dem Klient besprochen hat. Wenn die Abmahnung
  erledigt ist (z.B. durch ein Telefongespräch), dann sollte Lino für
  eine gewisse Zeitlang Ruhe geben (also nicht z.B: schon bei einer
  einzigen weiteren Abwesenheit wieder Alarm schlagen). Pro Klient
  sollte Lino eine Liste aller Anmahnungen zeigen. Wie ich das genau
  implementiere, muss ich mir noch überlegen. Wahrscheinlich zwei
  Tabellen "Abmahnungen" und "Mahngrade" sowie eine scheduled
  background task.

- Einschreibe-Optionen : pro Einschreibung muss es 4 neue
  Ankreuzfelder geben "Kinderbetreuung", "Schulzeiten", "Auf Bus
  angewiesen", "Abendkurs". Momentan werden diese Infos als Bemerkung
  erfasst, aber dann lässt sich das nicht weiterverwerten. Neue
  choicelist EnrolmentOptions (also wenn irgendwann noch weitere
  Optionen hinzu kommen, lässt sich das über Nacht leicht erledigen)

- Übersichtsliste "Kursplanung" : Liste aller Kurse im Status
  "Entwurf", gruppiert pro Gemeinde, mit diversen Angaben : Anzahl
  Kandidaten (Männlich, Weiblich, insgesamt sowie pro
  Einschreibe-Option ventiliert).  Diese Liste sollte ausdruckbar sein
  und per E-Mail ans Konsortium geschickt werden können.

- Lino meint "Kann Befragung nicht löschen, weil x Answers darauf
  verweisen" --> Antworten sollen natürlich automatisch mit ihrer
  Befragung gelöscht werden. Dieser Bug stört, weil wir deshalb die
  Fake-Klienten nicht löschen können.

A side effect:


- :class:`plausibility.PlausibilityUser` inherits just from UserRole,
  not from SiteUser because it caused an unresolved MRO when adding
  this role to :mod:`lino_avanti.lib.avanti.user_types`.
