:date: 2017-08-30

==========================
Wednesday, August 30, 2017
==========================


ImportError: This package should not be accessible on Python 3
==============================================================

The last error I am having in the test suite of the book is in
:ref:`specs.printing`. It says::

    ImportError: This package should not be accessible on Python 3. Either you are trying to run from the python-future src folder or your installation of python-future is corrupted.

This is :ticket:`1296`.

The error does *not* occur when I test only that particular document::

  $ doctest docs/specs/printing.rst  

I need to run the whole suite::

  $ inv test

Or at least::  

  $ python setup.py test -s tests.test_docs
  

It happens also `on travis
<https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/book/jobs/269925482>`__, but
there it looks different, it says::

    PodError: An error occurred during the conversion. Fatal Python error: Py_Initialize: can't initialize sys standard streams



Cannot use ...lino_cache because it is used for ...Site
=======================================================

There was another error on travis:: 

    Exception: Cannot use /home/travis/build/lino-framework/book/lino_cache/mysite for lino_book.projects.polls.mysite.settings.Site because it is used for mysite.settings.Site. (Settings None)
    
That's because
:mod:`lino_book.projects.polls` can be called in two ways:
     
- from `tests/test_demo.py`::

     self.run_django_manage_test('lino_book/projects/polls')
     
  The :envvar:`DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE` is ``mysite.settings`` because
  that's how the Django tutorial works.

- In `doctest docs/dev/polls/index.rst` it was being run with
  ``lino_book.projects.polls.mysite.settings``

Solution was to add the following to the doctest init of
:ref:`lino.tutorial.polls`::

    >> import os
    >> os.chdir('lino_book/projects/polls')
  
Explanation: usually the docs are being tested with the project's root
directory as current directory. For most pages this is not
important. And since every test runs in its own process, they may
change it without affecting the cwd of the next test.

This error did not occur on my machine because in a normal development
environment the directory holding the :xfile:`settings.py` is used as
the site cache. On Travis we cannot do this because for some reason (I
forgot the details) we cannot write to the source repositories. That's
why we define the :envvar:`LINO_CACHE_ROOT` in our
:xfile:`.travis.xml`::

    export LINO_CACHE_ROOT=$TRAVIS_BUILD_DIR/lino_cache

I now added this variable also to my own :xfile:`.bashrc` file. But I
seem to remember that this configuration is disturbing in a
development environment because it causes false alerts in quite some
situations.

Continued with Avanti
=====================

Added `id` to EnrolmentsByCourse so they can click on this field in
order to open the detail window. As a side effect they will be more
aware of the "enrolment id".  If they don't want this, then we must
think about whether there is another field to make clickable.

I changed the verbose_name of the `city` field (of the
:class:`lino_xl.lib.countries.CountryCity` mixin) from "City" to
"Locality". In German this should be translated to "Ortschaft".  I
consulted `this discussion
<https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/65325/generic-name-for-places-like-village-town-and-cities>`__
before deciding.

.. currentmodule:: lino_xl.lib.polls

"Kann Befragung Erstgespräch Salalala Anna 13.04.17 nicht löschen weil
1 Answer Remarks darauf verweisen."

Yes, there were missing `allow_cascaded_delete` in
:class:`AnswerChoice` and :class:`AnswerRemark`.

Response
Answer       
AnswerRemark
AnswerChoice

Docs
====

- I updated :ref:`dev.virtualfields`
  
- I moved the docstrings of :mod:`lino_xl.lib.polls` and
  :mod:`lino_xl.lib.countries` 
  from the code to a new specs page.
