:date: 2017-09-01

=========================
Friday, September 1, 2017
=========================

The :ref:`tera` project is about to reach its first milestone
(entering accounting data of 2017 into Lino and compare with the
results of TIM). A last important thing is to optimiza reporting.  The
:class:`GeneralAccountsBalance
<lino_xl.lib.ledger.GeneralAccountsBalance>` for example is
theoretically okay, but the user must open the parameters panel, enter
two dates (from 01.01.2016 to 31.12.2016), then click the refresh
button, then adjust the column widths, and then print...

Should we rely on appypod? -> yes for the moment.
:ticket:`1534` (Use secretary instead of appy.pod?)
:ticket:`1157` (Help Gaetan to get appy.pod work under Py3)

Can we simply add a button to the VAT declaration which prints the
GeneralAccountsBalance for the same period?
  
Should we use booking *dates* or rather booking *periods* for
selecting the observed period?  selecting by the *value_date* of the
movement is more straightforward and more performant. Why then do we
have accounting periods at all? Answer: because we have periods
"between the years", e.g. 2017-00 comes after 2016-12 and before
2017-01.

Changes:

- change AccountsBalance from dates to periods
  

When a plugin modifies another plugin
=====================================

In :mod:`lino_xl.lib.appypod` I replaced::

    @dd.receiver(dd.pre_analyze)
    def customize_contacts1(sender, **kw):
        from lino.utils.addressable import Addressable
        for m in rt.models_by_base(Addressable):
            m.define_action(print_labels=PrintLabelsAction())

by::
  
    from lino.utils.addressable import Addressable
    Addressable.print_labels = PrintLabelsAction()

The result is the same. The latter looks more elegant, both of them
bear the risk of shooting in your foot.  Difficult to say which one is
worse. The latter one modifies the :class:`Addressable` class object,
that's probably considered bad style (citation needed). But the first
one isn't innocent either.


Keep unseen notifications
=========================

Thanks to Mathieu for registering tickets 2029 to 2032.  For
:ticket:`2029` I added two new config variables :attr:`keep_unseen
<lino.modlib.notify.Plugin.keep_unseen>` and :attr:`remove_after
<lino.modlib.notify.Plugin.remove_after>`.


