:date: 2017-09-04

=========================
Monday, September 4, 2017
=========================

Miscellaneous optimizations in :ref:`tera`
==========================================

Working for :ticket:`2033`.

I added *spacer columns* to :class:`AccountsBalance
<lino_xl.lib.ledger.AccountsBalance>` (i.e. to all three reports).  It
required a few minor changes in the core:

- I added a constant `ALLOW_DUPLICATE_ELEMS` in
  :mod:`lino.core.layouts` which causes Lino to not complain about
  "Duplicate element usage" within a layout.

- Support empty column heading. If you don't sepecify any label, then
  Lino uses the field name as before. But if you specify an empty string
  as label, then it remains empty.
  Also changed :meth:`FieldElement.get_column_options` in both extjs
  versions.

Lydia and I realized that some journals use `number_with_year` while
others use `number`. We agreed that it should be `number_with_year`
everywhere because the numbers without year would become useless as
soon as there is more than one accounting year.  TODO: make the
`number_with_year` column sortable.

The ItemsByInvoice label in :ref:`tera` was rather irritatingly
labelled "Analytische Rechnungspositionen". New table mixin
:class:`lino_xl.lib.ledger.ItemsByVoucher` which sets also the label
to "Content".

We thought that it might be good to disable the phantom row in the
journals tables, i.e. to allow creation of new rows only using the (+)
button.  I then realized that this is actually true for most
tables. More exactly for all tables that have :attr:`stay_in_grid` set
to False.  This is handled by
:meth:`lino.core.requests.ActorRequest.create_phantom_rows`.
