:date: 2017-09-08

=========================
Friday, September 8, 2017
=========================

No alternative for appy.pod
===========================

I did some more research for:ticket:`1534` because for :ref:`avanti`
we want to print documents.

I installed `unoconv <https://github.com/dagwieers/unoconv>`_ on my
machine (``sudo apt install unoconv``) and tried it.  I had to specify
`UNO_PATH`, otherwise it worked out of the box::

   UNO_PATH=/usr/lib/libreoffice unoconv -f pdf  myfile.odt

Before choosing unoconv I had peeked into two other projects:
`pyodconverter <https://github.com/mirkonasato/pyodconverter>`_ does
something similar AFAICS but seems less alive and older.  `convertit
<https://github.com/makinacorpus/convertit>`_ is just a web interface
to unoconv.

But unoconv does only the smaller part of what appy.pod does. The
actual benefit of appy.pod is the templating work, i.e. how to replace
"markup codes" in the template by data from the database.  Secretary
is one alternative for this, and there is also `py3o.template
<https://pypi.python.org/pypi/py3o.template/>`_.  But after looking at
these once more, I continue to be skeptical. appy.pod is by far the
best.


Filtering contracts in :ref:`welfare`
=====================================

I worked on :ticket:`2030`.

Dans les listes de contrats (PIIS, Art60, Art.61 etc), Lino permet de
filtrer sur une période donnée. Si l'on remplit au moins un des champs
"Date du" et "au", alors il faut également spécifier dans le champ
"Évènement observé" comment Lino doit interpréter cette période:

- Actif : applies_from (Début de contrat) et date_ended (Date de fin)
  doivent se trouver dans la période donnée.
- Commencé : applies_from (Début de contrat) dans la période
- Fin : date_ended (Date de fin) dans la période
- Décidé : date_decided (Décidé le) dans la période
- Issued : date_issued (Date de signature) dans la période

Note: il n'est donc pas possible de filtrer sur le champ applies_until
(Fin prévue), sauf en utilisant un filtre de colonne.

Code changes:

- I changed the order of items in :class:`ContractEvents` : active is
  now first because it is the default value and the most used.

- I changed the meaning of `ContractEvents.active` : it now ignores
  `applies_until`. This behaviour was from a time where `end_date` was
  possible empty (which is no longer true

  This is defined in
  :class:`lino_welfare.modlib.isip.ContractBaseTable`
  

- I replaced applies_until by date_ended in the default column_names
  of the Contracts tables in jobs, isip and art6
  
  
Filter list of clients when creating appointment
================================================

I did :ticket:`2031` (added a chooser :meth:`project_choices` to
:class:`lino_welfare.modlib.cal.Event`) and wrote a test case in
:ref:`welfare.specs.cal` which covers it.


Getting Travis projects to build
================================

- django-admin.py prep: error: unrecognized arguments: --noreload

  That was because yesterday I removed the ``--noreload`` option
  from :manage: `initdb`. I removed it because AFAICS it was
  useless. So now I also removed it in the :command:`inv prep`
  command defined in :mod:`lino.invlib.tasks`.

- No .coveragerc file in welfare

- :ref:`book` currently has 59% of coverage.
     


Miscellaneous
=============

Together with Johanna we found a way to break user management: create
a user with all of the following fields blank: first_name, last_name,
username and initials. Fixed.


The site of a ticket
====================

In :class:`lino_xl.lib.clocking.MySessions` we had a remote field
`ticket__project`. This field was useless now, I replaced it by
`ticket__site`. Because before sending out service reports for August
I wanted to verify that I didn't accidentally forgot to assign the
site of a ticket I have been working on.

This change caused :ref:`presto` to break. Since Presto has never been
used and has no value, I deprecate the project and removed it from my
list of atelier projects.


The model of a VirtualField
===========================

While experimenting in :ref:`specs.noi.sql` I realized that the
:attr:`model` of a :class:`VirtualField
<lino.core.fields.VirtualField>` must be the class where the field was
*defined*. This can be an abstract model. The VirtualField instance
does not have a list of the concrete models which use it (because they
inherit from that class).

The :meth:`kernel_startup <lino.core.kernel.Kernel.kernel_startup>`
was doing the following::

    for model in models_list:
        for k, v in class_dict_items(model):
            if isinstance(v, fields.VirtualField):
                v.attach_to_model(model, k)

And meth:`class_dict_items` was defined as follows::

    def class_dict_items(cl, exclude=None):
        if exclude is None:
            exclude = set()
        for k, v in cl.__dict__.items():
            if not k in exclude:
                yield k, v
                exclude.add(k)
        for b in cl.__bases__:
            for i in class_dict_items(b, exclude):
                yield i

That was incorrect because for virtual fields defined on a model mixin
we must differentiate the "defining" from the "using" model.

Release in Chatelet
===================

Since 2017-05-10. Upgraded Django from 1.9.13 to 1.11.5.


- TypeError: 'profile' is an invalid keyword argument for this function

  (because field `User.profile` renamed to
  :attr:`lino.modlib.users.User.user_type`)



Memory usage on :ref:`sr`
=========================

Maybe Jane is slow because :ref:`sr` had only 276M (of 2G) free
memory?

::

    $ free -h
                 total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
    Mem:          1.9G       1.6G       276M        39M        30M       193M
    -/+ buffers/cache:       1.4G       500M
    Swap:         1.0G       376M       647M

After a reboot it was 1.1G.  But after the first web requests to jane
and bugs these 1.1G were reduced to 574M.

