:date: 2017-09-10 21:38

==========================
Sunday, September 10, 2017
==========================

Accounting report
=================

New report :class:`lino_xl.lib.accounting.AccountingReport` replaces the
Situation (which was similar but based on dates and without checkboxes
for excluding parts of the report).

API change : I replaced `get_parameter_fields(**fields) --> fields` by
`setup_parameters(parameters) --> None` because in the old API it was
not possible to have
:meth:`lino.core.utils.ParameterPanel.get_title_tags`.


Piwigo versus Google
====================

I read Jason Baker's posting `9 open source alternatives to Picasa
<https://opensource.com/alternatives/picasa>`__ (from May 2016), and
then gave Piwigo a try.  I opened a 30-day free trial account at
https://vigalakant.piwigo.com/ and uploaded some photos from a
yesterday's concert in Vigala church.  I wrote a `short article
<http://vigalakant.org.ee/wp/?p=550>`__ on our village blog, with two
of these photos.  I uploaded the same photos also to `Google
<https://photos.app.goo.gl/DJRmChIrY3T5fjpi1>`__.

The *disadvantages* of Piwigo versus Google are very visible:

- Piwigo costs money. A hosting plan at piwigo.com would cost us
  300€/year (`according to their tariff
  <http://piwigo.com/enterprise/>`__). And soon we would have more
  than 50 GB.
- People would need to register an account on our site in order to
  write comments or upload photos
- Not sure whether it is possible to upload photos from a mobile phone.  

The *advantages* of Piwigo versus Google are very abstract: We would
not depend on Google. We would not even depend on Piwigo.com because
we could decide at any time to set up and run our own server. 

Okay it is clear that Piwigo has no chance against Google here in
Vigala.  If I'd suggest a solution using Piwigo for our village photo
collection, my friends here would ask why I want them to use such a
system instead of the "free" Google system.  And I guess that in Eupen
it wouldn't be different. Normal people just prefer to rely on Google
or Facebook because that gives them all they need. "We want free beer,
we don't need no free speach."


