:date: 2017-09-11

==========================
Monday, September 11, 2017
==========================

Getting the test suites to pass on Travis
=========================================

I am currently doing occasional commits after reading build reports
from travis and readthedocs.

I had a `No data to combine` message in `travis for welfare
<https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/welfare/jobs/274041100>`__ and
fixed it be removing the :xfile:`pytest.ini` file.  after looking at
:func:`run_tests_coverage
<lino.utils.invlib.tasks.run_tests_coverage>` in
:mod:`lino.utils.invlib.tasks`.


Another nice failure is `this one
<https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/welfare/jobs/274066527#L2657>`_.
It occurs only on travis, not on my machine, obviously because of
undefined sorting order when generating demo data using payment
suggestions.  Seems that something is sorting movements or suggestions
randomly when they have same partner and same date.  I hoped that
`this commit
<https://github.com/lino-framework/xl/commit/5a0f8cd32a011e80e4c623ffa362135014e367f2>`__
but it didn't. My next attempt was to add `'project'` to the
`order_by` because that's what's different for these movements. But
note that `project` is a dummy field when `project_model` is not
set. And we need to remove it because Django won't do that for us. I
reimplemented :func:`fields_list <lino.core.fields.fields_list>`
because I believed that I could use it to remove dummy fields from the
order_by list. Then I realized that we cannot use :func:`fields_list
<lino.core.fields.fields_list>` in the global scope of a
:xfile:`models.py` module and wrote a stupid
:meth:`lino_xl.lib.accounting.Plugin.remove_dummy` method.


     
And here is :ticket:`1296` back::

    Original exception was:
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "virtualenvs/py27/lib/python2.7/site-packages/appy/pod/converter.py", line 20, in <module>
        import sys, os, os.path, re, time, signal
      File "/usr/lib/python3.5/re.py", line 335, in <module>
        import copyreg
      File "virtualenvs/py27/lib/python2.7/site-packages/copyreg/__init__.py", line 7, in <module>
        raise ImportError('This package should not be accessible on Python 3. '
    ImportError: This package should not be accessible on Python 3. Either you are trying to run from the python-future src folder or your installation of python-future is corrupted.

That error is also on `travis
<https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/welfare/jobs/274066527>`__.

I got rid of it after observing that it did not occur when I ran it
manually::

    $ doctest docs/specs/integ.rst

It occurred only when called using::

  from lino.utils.pythontest import TestCase
  class SpecsTests(TestCase):

     def test_integ(self):
         return self.run_simple_doctests('docs/specs/integ.rst')




And `this one
<https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/welfare/jobs/274066527#L2618>`__
said "Warning: No local config directory. Contact your system
administrator.  "


