:date: 2017-09-14

============================
Thursday, September 14, 2017
============================

Yesterday I removed :class:`dd.NullCharField` after having read in
`this thread
<https://stackoverflow.com/questions/17257031/django-unique-null-and-blank-charfield-giving-already-exists-error-on-admin-p>`__
that Django now allows nullable CharField.  And now I observed that
this was not enough.  I also had to adapt
:meth:`lino.core.store.StoreField.form2obj` because now the field no
longer takes care of handling the special situation.  Fixed. Added a
test case :mod:`lino_book.projects.adg.tests.test_nullchar` to cover
this.

release@spz
===========

More optimizations: Therapists are now CourseTeacher role and see the
MyCoursesGiven table.  The teacher_model in :ref:`tera` is User, not
Person.  MyCoursesGiven did not yet support that.

Welcome to Doti Sandhya Rani
============================

Doti Sandhya Rani, a Graduate Student at Texas State University,
started to learn Lino with me as mentor. Welcome to the community,
Doti!  I reviewed the second chapter of the Developers Guide
(:ref:`lino.tutorial.hello`) with Doti in mind.

Lino on readthedocs
===================

Uff, :ref:`book` now builds on readthedocs:
http://lino.readthedocs.io


Welfare failing on Travis
=========================

I added a method
:meth:`lino.utils.config.ConfigDirCache.scan_config_dirs`.

I removed :func:`rt.relpath` and replaced it by an ellipsis because
anyway it failed on `travis
<https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/welfare/jobs/275453538>`__
