:date: 2017-09-19

===========================
Tuesday, September 19, 2017
===========================

Jane is slow when showing tickets
=================================

Continued from yesterday.

To fix the problem we now graft a dict `_disabled_fields` to every
table row.  On the Actor (actors and dbtables) I replaced the method
`disabled_fields` by two methods :meth:`get_disabled_fields` and
:meth:`make_disabled_fields`.  This method is being used only
internally (from :mod:`lino.core.store` and :mod:`lino.core.model`).

I am not sure whether Django caches and shares Model instances between
different requests. If it does, then we need to extend the grafted
dict to something like `_user_to_disabled_fields` because the set
depends on the user. We wouldn't want to mix up those of an admin with
those of a simple user.

TODO: Maybe we should also rename `Model.disabled_fields` to sth like
`disable_data_elems` and change the API and all usages so that it
returns nothing but receives the set as first arg and modifies that
set, adding and possibly removing names.
  
  
Developer's Guide
=================

Doti inspires me. Today I continued to work much in the
:ref:`lino.dev`.  I especially added two more Lino Minimal projects
and a documentation page about them: :ref:`specs.projects.min`.

I converted the docstrings of :mod:`lino_xl.lib.contacts` to prosa
style in :ref:`specs.contacts`.  I even added a diagram of the
database structure. And can recommend LibreOffice Draw for doing such
diagrams.

Side effect: I changed the default value for
:attr:`lino_xl.lib.cal.Plugin.partner_model` from Partner to Person.


Travis
======

We reached a place where it is no longer my own code that causes the
welfare test suite to fail on Python 3:
https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/welfare/jobs/277350481

I posted an issue on the appy forum:
https://answers.launchpad.net/appy/+question/658295      
