:date: 2017-09-21

============================
Thursday, September 21, 2017
============================

Today I worked on the bootstrap3 interface (for :ticket:`2076` "Make
bugs.sr (bs3 for jane) more usable").  Logging in and out doesn't yet
really work there.

- renamed AllTickets to Tickets
- removed PublicTickets  

To "log in" or to "sign in"?
============================

I surfed about "sign in versus log in" and found that we should indeed
change "log in" and "log out" to "sign in" and "sign out".

I liked `Roland Tepp's explanation
<https://ux.stackexchange.com/questions/1080/using-sign-in-vs-using-log-in>`__:
Mostly because "Logging" something does not really convey the meaning
of "entering" quite the same way as "sign in" does.  I can log any
daily event, but that is just a mention of a fact while when I sign in
at the door of an office building, I am giving my signature that I
have entered the building and when I "sign out", I am also recording
the fact that I am leaving the building...

An avalanche of internal changes
================================

:ticket:`2076` triggered :ticket:`2077`.  I know that it's me who
wrote Lino, but this software will never stop to surprise me. Today
was such a moment. I am amazed. J'ai beau savoir qu'il est tombé dans
la marmite quand il était petit...

- login and logout are now implemented as Lino actions :class:`SignIn
  <lino.modlib.users.SignIn>` and :class:`SignOut
  <lino.modlib.users.SignOut>`.  Until now they were "hard-wired" in the
  linoweb.js and had their own view in :mod:`lino.modlib.extjs.views`.

- The `label_align` on a panel was being ignored. Fixed.  This feature
  is used by SignIn because with the default labelAlign="top" they
  really looked too weird.

- We have a new feature : actions can now respond with a
  :attr:`goto_url
  <lino.core.requests.ValidActionResponses.goto_url>`. This feature
  is used by SignIn and SignOut to request a page reload.

- `ActionParamsPanel` now uses `buttons` instead of `tbar`. Looks
  better.

- as a result it is now possible in bootstrap3 to sign in and
  out. that's what actually triggered the avalanche.
  
TODO:

- in extjs6 the labelAlign doesn't work
- in extjs Sorry, dialog action without base_params.mk  
