:date: 2017-09-25

==========================
Monday, September 25, 2017
==========================

Coverage and Atelier
====================

I continued to work in :ref:`atelier` for :ticket:`2074`.  The default
values for :envvar:`coverage_command` and :envvar:`prep_command` have
changed and are now defined :mod:`atelier.invlib.ns` together with the
others.  I completely removed special handling of projects having a
:xfile:`pytest.ini` file.

One visible result is that the test coverage of atelier increased from
20% to 40% (under Python 3).

Under Python 3, in :mod:`atelier.sphinxconf.insert_input`, I had a
TypeError :message:`a bytes-like object is required, not 'str'`. Had
to do with the ``from io import BytesIO as StringIO`` in that
module. It was about decoding the output of a subprocess...

In :mod:`atelier.sphinxconf.blog` I had::

  WARNING: Inline emphasis start-string without end-string.

but funnily only under Python 3. It took me some time to figure out
that it was caused by::

    from builtins import map

It seems that the :func:`map` function has the following docstring
under Python 3::

    map(func, *iterables) –> map object

I fixed the problem by just removing the import statement, together
with similar lines for ``range`` and ``object``. I continue to not
understan the purpose of these imports.


Optimizations in :ref:`avanti`
===============================

I checked in the code changes I did on Saturday.

Users can now filter clients by coaching type.
:class:`lino_xl.lib.coachings.Coachable` mixin.

The :xfile:`presence_sheet.weasy.html` template didn't show the names.
Fixed. And it now shows the state (and remark) of the
:class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.Guest` object if such an object exists. If no
Guest object exists, it continues to print eiterh X or blank based on
the end_date and start_date of the enrolment.

TODO: ATM this is still a single template used by both :ref:`avanti`
and :ref:`voga`. Their usage is quite different though, and I guess
that sooner or later we will need to split this template into two. The
interesting question will then be how to keep as much as possible
within a common base template.

The :attr:`quick_search_fields` of
:class:`lino_avanti.lib.avanti.Client`
now includes the :attr:`ref` field.

The detail window of :class:`lino_avanti.lib.courses.Enrolment` now
also shows the data problems
(i.e. :class:`lino.modlib.checkdata.ProblemsByController` which now
uses a summary panel and whose detail_layout I optimized).



Documentation 
=============

I moved the docstrings from
the :mod:`lino_xl.lib.coachings` module to
the :ref:`specs.coachings` page.

Lino surprised me once more:
The help text of the :attr:`coaching_type
<lino_xl.lib.users.User.coaching_type>` field is indeed given in the
:ref:`specs.coachings` page.


release@avanti
==============

I upgraded their production site because all items of :ticket:`2075`
are done.
