:xdate: 2017-10-13

========================
Friday, October 13, 2017
========================

Lino Care II is ready
=====================

I worked on :ticket:`2072` (Lino Care version 2 without tickets) and
released it to their production site.

- The overview field is no longer a DisplayField but a HtmlBox. That's
  because we want it to have a scrollbar when there is not enough
  room to view it.
- :class:`lino_xl.lib.addresses.AddressOwner` now supports being used
  when the :mod:`lino_xl.lib.addresses` plugin itself is not
  installed.  This is used for :class:`lino_xl.lib.contacts.Partner`
  which now inherits from it.
  
- the full names of their users table got lost because writing a
  migrator for this would have been complicated since users are no
  longer persons (and the original dump ws written using an older
  version).
  
- This was the first test of the
  :class:`lino_xl.lib.phones.ContactDetailsOwnerChecker` for converting
  a production database. Passed.

- The template context had no name :tcname:`site` although it was
  documented.

- I added a Sphinx directive :rst:dir:`tcname` for documenting
  template context names, and a role of same name (:rst:role:`tcname`)
  for referring to them.

- A :class:`Person <lino_xl.lib.contacts.Person>` is now
  :class:`Certifiable <lino_xl.lib.excerpts.Certifiable>` and the demo
  databases have a default template :xfile:`contacts/Person/Default.odt`
  which prints a "Terms & Conditions" document, which they will probably
  need for the :ref:`care` site.

TODO:

- For :ref:`care` we would like to also make :class:`users.User
  <lino.modlib.users.User>` inherit from :class:`Certifiable
  <lino_xl.lib.excerpts.Certifiable>`, and since the mixin is optional
  (i.e. supports being applied when its plugin is not installed), the
  most elegant way to get there is to make the standard User model
  certifiable as well. That's currently not possible because it would
  create a dependency (lino depends on lino_xl). Solution would be to
  move excerpts from xl to lino.

