:date: 2017-10-14

==========================
Saturday, October 14, 2017
==========================

I realized that making Person Certifiable was not a good idea because
it adds a database field `printed_by` to Person for every application
which has excerpts installed. In :ref:`welfare` and :ref:`voga` they
won't want that field.  So I changed this: Partner is now just a
:class:`lino.modlib.printing.Printable`, and the `std` fixture of
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.contacts` now creates an :class:`ExcerptType` for
the new :xfile:`contacts/Person/TermsConditions.odt` template.  Every site
which uses contacts, excerpts and appypod will now try to print one
person when loading the demo fictures. But our template has a
condition: :attr:`site_company
<lino.modlib.system.SiteConfig.site_company>` must be set.  When
:attr:`site_company` is empty, this template makes indeed no sense.
In the :mod:`lino_book.projects.team` demo project this caused a
failure during :cmd:`inv prep`.  The actual bug here was that
:ref:`noi` had no :attr:`site_company`.  I fixed this.

All this caused also a few changes in the API around PrintableObject,
Printable and Certifiable: e.g.  I moved the
:meth:`get_printable_demo_objects
<lino.modlib.printing.Printable.get_printable_demo_objects>` from
Certifiable to Printable. I merged PrintableObject into Printable,
moved some code from :class:`lino.core.model.Model` to
:class:`lino.modlib.printing.Printable`, ...

I renamed :xfile:`contacts/Person/Default.odt` to
:xfile:`contacts/Person/TermsConditions.odt` because otherwise Lino
would find :xfile:`excerpts/Default.odt` when excerpts is before
contacts in :meth:`get_installed_apps`.

