:date: 2017-10-16

========================
Monday, October 16, 2017
========================

Before starting to continue with :ref:`avanti` I ran a test and got
this error message::
  
  AttributeError: 'str' object has no attribute 'get_layout_handle'

The explanation is easy: that's what happens when you try to
:meth:`rt.show` an abstract table.  It took me 80 minutes to find this
explanation because I hadn't paid attention to Tonis's last commit
(`Fixing Two AllTickets in menu
<https://github.com/lino-framework/xl/commit/77697d2f7394b3f50beb8f4d24b9fd98daa8afe6>`__).
Now Lino would say "tickets.Tickets is abstract" when it happens again.
I reverted Tonis's change and must ask him what problem it fixed.

Before I knew what happened, I made a few code optimizations in the
startup process.  Side effect: the :func:`make_params_layout_handle`
function no longer takes a parameter since that wasn't used anyway.

Tonis and I fixed :ticket:`2111`. This was a tough one, but the
solution seems easy and clear now that we found it: when an action
responds using `goto_url`, then this means that we want to reload the
browser page. That's why it makes no sense to call `goto_url` and
e.g. `refresh` or `refresh_all` at the same time. We didn't call this
directly, but Lino called `close_window` on action success, which also
makes no sense when you are going to another URL anyway. And Firefox
behaved differently from Chromium in this situation (by cancelling any
pending AJAX requests).  That's why the problem was visible only
there.


Lydia and I discovered that when you enter the number of an invoice in
the finan.Item.match field, Lino should fill the other fields (partner
and amount) with what it can suggest. For Lino Tera that's important
because they have lots of incoming payments where the name of the
payment sender differs from the invoice recipient.  For example when a
child of divorced parents attends a therapy, it can happen that they
pay in alternance, or that even some other relative pays their
invoice.
