:date: 2017-10-24

=========================
Tuesday, October 24, 2017
=========================

Last tests for :ticket:`2115` before deploying it to their production
site.  I changed how :class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.UpdateGuests` reports
about what it did.

During the data migration I had this message::

    Abandoning with 2 unsaved instances:
    - dupable.PhoneticWord {'word': [u'This field cannot be blank.']} (2 object(s) with primary key 1520, 1523)

  

Tooltips on buttons without image
=================================

Ha! I found a fix for :ticket:`1545` (tooltips don't show on buttons
without image)! This problem was only in extjs3, not in extjs6.

I continued to convert the docs for :mod:`lino_xl.lib.cal` to prosa.
For example the references :class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.Event` or
:class:`Events <lino_xl.lib.cal.Events>` should now be clickable:


Lino Care second edition
========================

I updated the :ref:`oikos` production site for :ticket:`2072`
(:ref:`care` 2nd edition) and wrote instructions to Johannes.

Avanti
======

Some precisions to :ticket:`2115` after hangout with Johanna:

- Neues Feld Category (Detailzustand? Phase?) pro Klient und neue
  Tabelle Categories
- avanti.Client.ending_reason : change choicelist to table
  EndingReason.  Renamed `EndingReasons` to `OldEndingReasons` and
  ending_reason to old_ending_reason.
  
- Beendigungsgrund pro Einschreibung wieder raus
  
- I re-enabled two new EnrolmentStates "ended" and "aborted" which are
  not yet visible though.
  
- A :class:`lino_avanti.lib.avanti.Coordinator` is now an
  :class:`OfficeOperator`, i.e. they can edit the calendar entries of
  other users. Do they have entries of their own?  I guessed no
  (i.e. removed the :class:`OfficeUser` role), but am not sure.
