:date: 2017-11-17

=========================
Friday, November 17, 2017
=========================

I deployed :ref:`amici` to a production site.

:class:`lino_xl.lib.addresses.AddressOwnerChecker` failed because
there were address rows for partners that are not a person (which is
no longer supported in :ref:`amici`).

New ticket :ticket:`2148` (Cannot insert person with nonempty email in
Amici) This was caused by :mod:`lino_xl.lib.phones`.  When inserting a
person with a non-empty email field, :ref:`amici` failed because it
tried to save the ContactDetail row before the Person row had been
saved. It says :message:`ValueError: save() prohibited to prevent data
loss due to unsaved related object 'partner'`.

Instead of defining :meth:`FOO_changed
<lino.core.model.Model.FOO_changed>` methods for every field, we now
define a :meth:`after_ui_save <lino.core.model.Model.after_ui_save>`
method on :class:`ContactDetailsOwner
<lino_xl.lib.phones.ContactDetailsOwner>`.

I created a test case
:mod:`lino_amici.projects.herman.test_insert_person` which reproduces
the problem.

Note that we don't import :class:`ContactDetailTypes
<lino_xl.lib.phones.ContactDetailTypes>` to the global namespace of
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.phones.mixins` because we want that module to be
importable from applications which do *not* have phones installed.

Lino Tera continued
===================

I continued to work for :ref:`tera` on :ticket:`2137` after meeting
with Daniel on :doc:`1104`.

DONE:

- "Kurse" --> "Therapien", "Kursleiter" -> "Therapeut", "Klient" -->
  "Patient".

- PersonDetail : add GuestsByPerson and EnrolmentsByPerson, remove
  NotesByPerson.

- ClientDetail : add GuestsByClient, remove CoursesByClient.

- "Themen" ("Topics") are implemented using :mod:`lino_xl.lib.lists`
  (not :mod:`lino_xl.lib.faculties`).

- Notizen und Themen sind jetzt vertraulich (d.h. nur sichtbar für
  Benutzer mit Rolle `ClientsUser`)
  
- Notizen sind unabhängig von Terminen (Termine sind nicht vertraulich)
    

TODO:  

- Notizen und Themen müssen importiert werden aus TIM. Themen sind pro
  Familie und pro Klient, Notizen nur pro Klient.

- MTI Navigator can be irritating. Possibility to hide certain links &
  conversions. e.g. Person -> Houshold, Person -> Partner should be
  hidden for normal users.

TALK

- Termin erstellen von Therapie aus : testen. Konfigurierung?
- Hide Course.client pointer?
- humanlinks & households raus?
- Automatische ZDSS-Anfrage Krankenkasse?
- Multiple phone numbers?

