:date: 2017-12-11

=========================
Monday, December 11, 2017
=========================

Python 3 support
================

I created the `appypod project
<https://github.com/lino-framework/appypod>`__ on GitHub
(:ticket:`2194`).

The next challenge is to continue removing Python 3 test failures in
:ref:`book` (:ticket:`36`).  So I reactivated Python 3 in the
:xfile:`.travis.xml` file for :ref:`book` and started to fix them.

The :cmd:`inv cov` command was calling :cmd:`inv prep` twice. This was
because in :mod:`atelier.invlib.tasks` we had::

    @task(name='cov', pre=[tasks.call(prep, cov=True)])
    def run_tests_coverage(ctx, html=True, html_cov_dir='htmlcov'):

That was wrong. It must be::

    @task(name='cov')
    def run_tests_coverage(ctx, html=True, html_cov_dir='htmlcov'):

We don't need to specify hard-coded dependency between tasks since now
we have :envvar:`coverage_command`.



Thoughts about the future of Lino
=================================

Will Kahn-Greene (the author of Bleach, which Lino uses to avoid
problems after pasting content from MS-Word into a text editor field)
released html5lib-python 1.0 and tells the story of Bleach and
html5lib in his `blog post
<http://bluesock.org/~willkg/blog/dev/html5lib_1_0.html>`__.

He writes about how he helped the html5lib project as an "interim
maintainer".  He describes Geoffrey as "He seems to be the only active
maintainer. He was really busy with other things, html5lib doesn't pay
at all, there's a ton of stuff to do, he's burned out, and recently
there have been spats of negative comments in the issues and
PRs. Generally the project had a lot of stop energy."

I recognized myself and Lino. At least partly... there are some
differences between Geoffrey/html5lib and Luc/Lino, e.g. I am *not*
burnt out (just limited and getting old), and Lino- unlike html5lib-
*does* pay two full-time developers.

Will then makes another observation which fits Lino as well: "I see a
lot of open source projects that are in trouble in the sense that they
don't have a critical mass of people and energy. When the sole
part-time volunteer maintainer burns out, the project languishes." He
summarizes his experience as an interim maintainer by saying "it was a
successful experiment in regards to achieving my stated goals, but I
don't know if it gave the project much momentum to continue forward."

What Will did to Geoffrey and html5lib is similar to what I am doing
to Gaetan and Appy. It is always delicate to join a one-man project,
i.e. a project where a single developer dominates and acts as a
"benevolent dictator". Lino also is a one-man project. Fortunately
Lino has Tonis who does very well as my assistant. Nevertheless it
will take years before Lino will be a community project. But we are on
the way.

A difference between Will and me is that Will is obviously better than
me in teamwork.  I never learned to work in a team. 25 year old Tonis
happens to teach me lessons on how to behave in a team.

People like Will are priceless.  Humanity needs such people if we
agree that software must be free.  But who pays for such people?

I see that Will has been paid by the PCF (`Participatory Culture
Foundation <http://pculture.org/about-pcf>`__) who according to their
website "develop technology and services that ensure everyone has
access to all that the internet has to offer." Their flagship project
is `Amara <https://amara.org/>`__ where I watched the first 10 minutes
of the moving `Story of Aaron Schwartz
<https://amara.org/en/videos/5Mo4oAj1bxOb/info/the-internets-own-boy-the-story-of-aaron-swartz/?tab=video>`__. And
now Will is being paid by Mozilla (a funder of PCF).

Would Mozilla or the PCF be interested in Lino?  No, I don't believe
they would invest into Lino because customized database application
development is a whole different business.  But it is clear that Lino
needs some association like Mozilla or the PCF.


