:date: 2017-12-12

==========================
Tuesday, December 12, 2017
==========================

Release @ Avanti
================

I made an upgrade of :ref:`avanti` production site.  I realized that
for most users in :ref:`avanti` we do not want to have the new
:class:`SiteSearch <lino.modlib.about.SiteSearch>` feature.  So I
added a new user role :class:`lino.modlib.about.SiteSearcher`.

- There are still some candidate courses for which a series of unused
  calendar entries has been generated. But because the course series
  "Candidates" no longer has a calendar entry type, Lino did not
  delete them.
  
- A checkdata problem whose :attr:`owner
  <lino.modlib.checkdata.Problem.owner>` is None means that the owner
  has been deleted. It means that we can safely delete the problem as
  well. AttributeError: 'NoneType' object has no attribute 'has_conflicting_events'

- their checkdata often reports that phonetic words aren't
  up-to-date. I tried to understand why. I added a
  :meth:`get_simple_paraneters` to `PhoneticWord` because I would like
  to verify on their data that there are no phonetic words at all for
  these cases.

        yield 'owner_id'
        yield 'owner_type'

  That's how I discovered another bug: cannot use GenericForeignKey as
  a filter parameter.

Setting the value of a combobox in ExtJS 6
==========================================

In :class:`lino.core.store.ComboStoreField` we need to change how a
combobox field is represented in a JSON response::

    def value2dict(self, ar, v, d, row):
        value, text = self.get_value_text(ar, v, row)
        d[str(self.name)] = text
        d[str(self.name + constants.CHOICES_HIDDEN_SUFFIX)] = value

into this::

    def value2dict(self, ar, v, d, row):
        value, text = self.get_value_text(ar, v, row)
        d[str(self.name)] = [{'text': text, 'value': value}]
        d[str(self.name + constants.CHOICES_DISPLAY_SUFFIX)] = text
        d[str(self.name + constants.CHOICES_HIDDEN_SUFFIX)] = value

and then define `CHOICES_DISPLAY_SUFFIX` as ``'Display'``.  And then
we need to set `displayField
<http://docs.sencha.com/extjs/6.5.2/classic/Ext.form.field.ComboBox.html#cfg-displayField>`__
and `valueField
<http://docs.sencha.com/extjs/6.5.2/classic/Ext.form.field.ComboBox.html#cfg-valueField>`__




