:date: 2017-12-16

===========================
Saturday, December 16, 2017
===========================

Reappearing on Facebook
=======================

Oh my God, after :doc:`reappearing on Facebook <1215>` yesterday I
couldn't refrain from confirming dozens of friend suggestions and
copying my blog post to my Facebook wall.  And of course my friends
reacted.  One of them asked "What caused the change of mind concerning
Google, my dear?"

Dear Duche, I didn't change my mind concerning Google and Facebook.  I
changed my answer to the question whether it makes sense to boycott
one of them.  And I am already regretting it.  My comeback makes me
realize more clearly why I had left them :ref:`two years ago
<quit_facebook>`.  Being on FB leads you to continuous temptation. Of
course I *love* to talk with my friends about all kinds of topics. Of
course I *would* love to simply take part into these discussions
without caring about who then gains property of our collective
intellectual work.  Should I stop worrying about these questions?  I
thought that I should but it seems that I can't.  Without these
questions I wouldn't work on :ref:`amici` and on
:ref:`lino.socialauth`. Should I really stop working on these
projects?  I feel like the bull in Francis Cabrel's `La Corrida
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m1ET6SEtwbc>`__.

But I also know that my personal feeling at a given moment is no valid
indication about whether my work, my stumblings and victories make
sense.  Yes, maybe I am that poor bull who fights without having a
chance.  But maybe I am a Noah or a Jona who saved others because they
followed their vocation although it felt obviously ridiculous.  We
never know in advance whether it makes sense.  Therefore I will --of
course-- continue to work on my projects.  Especially as long as they
pay well.  And currently they pay even two full-time salaries.

Phonetic words getting lost
===========================

The summary panel of :mod:`lino.modlib.dupable.SimilarObjects` now
shows the list of phonetic words also when there are no similar
objects.  This will help us to find out why phonetic words sometimes
disappear.  :ticket:`2198`.


Optimizations in Amici
======================

When a person has no primary address of their own, then Lino now looks
up its primary household and uses this as primary address.

The :class:`lino_xl.lib.addresses.AddressOwner` mixin now inherits
from :class:`lino_xl.lib.countries.AddressLocation`.
