:date: 2017-12-18

=========================
Monday, December 18, 2017
=========================

Miscellaneous optimizations
===========================

I adapted the test suites for :ref:`welfare` after my recent changes.

In :ref:`voga` I added the :class:`lino.modlib.about.SiteSearcher`
role to all user types.

New field :attr:`lino_xl.lib.phones.ContactDetail.end_date`. And the
summary panel of :class:`lino_xl.lib.phones.ContactDetailsByPartner`
now hides away items whose :attr:`end_date` is not empty.
:ticket:`2211` (Marking a contact detail as obsolete)
        
In :ref:`amici` we want to store also "historic" roles of a person,
for example the fact that somebody has been working somewhere *from* a
given date or *until* a given date. We want two additional fields
:attr:`start_date <lino_xl.lib.contacts.Role.start_date>` and
:attr:`end_date <lino_xl.lib.contacts.Role.end_date>`. We could inject
them in :ref:`amici`, or we can extend the plugin there, but this
feature might be wanted by other applications as well.  Therefore it
should be implemented as a configuration option of the contacts
plugin: new plugin attribute
:attr:`lino_xl.lib.contacts.Plugin.with_roles_history`.
:ticket:`2212` (Add start and end dates to contact roles)


Optimizations Avanti
====================

In :ref:`avanti` we had a UnicodeDecodeError problem which arose when
displaying a particular object whose ``__str__`` choicelist contained
non-ascii chars. I fixed this problem by replacing
calls to :func:`django.utils.encoding.force_text`
by calls to :func:`builtins.str` in 
:meth:`lino.core.renderer.HtmlRenderer.obj2html`.

New user type "Secretary". Can see name, address and other "not very
private" data of clients, can manage enrolments and reminders, but not
e.g. trends, CV, notes, etc.
