:date: 2017-12-31

=========================
Sunday, December 31, 2017
=========================

I just stumbled over `opensource.google.com
<https://opensource.google.com>`__ where they say that

    Google believes that open source is good for everyone. By being
    open and freely available, it enables and encourages collaboration
    and the development of technology, solving real world problems.

Their `Why Open Source?  <https://opensource.google.com/docs/why/>`__
document is comparable to my `Why software must be free <http://hw.saffre-rumma.net/fs/index.html>`_ document.
With a few fundamental differences of course...

Google does great work by showing how the world government should be
organized.  Google is loved and adored by a big part of the human
world population. They are better than Microsoft and Facebook in
getting loved.

In `Net states rule the world; we need to recognize their power
<https://www.wired.com/story/net-states-rule-the-world-we-need-to-recognize-their-power/>`__
(April 2017), Alexis Wichowski explains why national governments are
getting more and more helpless, and he suggests to grant more power to
the "net-states":

  The world needs net-states in order to defeat the non-states. We’re
  not beating them on our own. To win information-era wars, countries
  need to recognize the power of the net-states, not as an ancillary
  locale of assembly in the cyberspace, but as critical entities
  wielding the kind of power and influence necessary to go toe-to-toe
  with non-state actors.  The world needs net-states, because they
  occupy the same territory as the non-states: the digital sphere.

OTOH it seems clear to me that we should never ever let Google do the
job of governing our world.  Because their interests are in
fundamental contradiction with those of the majority of humans.
Because they are good only for those who accept the rules of their
game.
