=====================
Copyright and freedom
=====================

The honour and the revenue
==========================

The mere *word* "copyright" is actually wrong.  The set of laws about
what is commonly called "copyright" is actually about two very
different things.

- One part is the right to claim **authorship** of your spiritual
  work. This part applies e.g. when you quote somebody else's work in
  your own book. When you just copy one sentence from a book, then you
  don't need to ask permission, but you *must mention the original
  author*, otherwise you get guilty of `plagiarism
  <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plagiarism>`_.

- The other part is the right to distribute **copies** of this work.
  If you write a book in the hope of becoming rich by selling millions
  of copies, then you don't want somebody else to harvest the money
  that grew from your seed.

I'll call them the right on **honour** and the right on **revenue**.
These are the two important reasons why people do creative work.

`Glyn Moody <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glyn_Moody>`_ also
describes these two possible motivations for writing textual works:
"Textual works that are chiefly designed to convey knowledge are
different in important ways from those mainly created for
entertainment—novels, plays, poems, etc. Factual productions are
generally written by academics and researchers as a way of
disseminating their discoveries or ideas. They are not, primarily,
written to gain money, unlike novels and other works of entertainment.
The creators of factual works are typically paid through recognition
by their peers and (sometimes) the wider public, which helps to
advance their careers and ultimately leads to indirect financial
rewards such as more ready access to grants and a higher
salary."[#Moody]_

Moody calls them "factual" and "entertainment" works, and I agree that
the desire to "convey knowledge" is the prominent motivation for
writing factual works.  I am less sure about the underlying statement
that authors of novels and poems would do their work mainly for
revenue.  The difference is not in the content of the work, the
difference is in the motivation of the author.  That's why I prefer to
call them *honour-motivated* and *revenue-motivated*.

Am I simplifying things too much when I say that the desire to "convey
knowledge" (others say "share knowledge") is based on the desire for
"honour"?  Maybe, but note that even the most humble author who just
wants to share their thoughts and certainly does not hope to get
famous would feel dishonoured if they would discover evident
plagiarism of their work.


.. [#Moody] `Open access: All human knowledge is there—so why can’t
            everybody access it?
            <http://arstechnica.com/science/2016/06/what-is-open-access-free-sharing-of-all-human-knowledge/>`_
            by Glyn Moody (UK) - Jun 17, 2016 7:30pm EEST


Vocabulary problems
===================

Note that many languages have no own word for copyright. They call it
"author right" (German *Autorenrecht*, French *droits d'auteur*).

The difference between "author rights" and "copyright" is of such
importance that I would report this unclear naming as a serious bug
if humanity was a software project.

