===============
About democracy
===============

Governing the earth in a peaceful way is one of the big challenges of
humanity.  Humans felt it already thousands of years ago when they
wrote texts like "and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply,
and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the
fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living
thing that moveth upon the earth." (`Gen 1:28
<http://www.kingjamesbibleonline.org/Genesis-1-28/>`_).

While most humans agree more or less with the idea that it is our
vocation and duty to rule the world, the question on *how* to do it
has caused quite some discussion since then.

Our western civilization is based on the assumption that governments
should be democratic.  History has told us that monarchies,
aristocracies and dictatures fail to bring peace and welfare in the
long run.

Not everybody agrees to this assumption.  Every year brings at least
one sad example of a dictature which tries to gain power over their
neighbours. My only explanation why people sometimes tend to reach
back to obsolete government methods is that they have not been
informed correctly about why they are obsolete.

It is obvious that democratic organizations are not free of problems.

The current implementations of democracy have their weaknesses.  Using
nowaday's technologies, even a sandwich bar is difficult to govern in
a democratic way.  Not to speak about a village, a country or a
planet.  From a sociological point of view we are still in the stone
age of democracy.

"Democracy is a poor system of government at best; the only thing that
can honestly be said in its favor is that it is about eight times as
good as any other method the human race has ever tried."  [#heinlein]_

We are eager to see lots of bugs and issues in your local town
administration, our national government, the European Union and
finally the United Nations.  But note that in most countries we are
allowed write about these problems and publish our writings.  Isn't
this alone a reason to hope?  Let's be grateful for having democracy.
Let's believe in democracy.

That said, we might still worry whether our democratic structures
actually govern the world.  Recent years reveal a *shift of power from
national states to transnational corporations* [#vatican]_.  This is a
serious danger. My only answer to this danger is :doc:`why_free`.

.. rubric:: Footnotes


.. [#heinlein] `Robert A. Heinlein
               <https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Robert_A._Heinlein>`_

.. [#vatican] `Ethics in Internet
              <http://www.vatican.va/roman_curia/pontifical_councils/pccs/documents/rc_pc_pccs_doc_20020228_ethics-internet_en.html>`_
              (Pontifical Council for Social Communications, Vatican
              City, February 22, 2002.


