=========================
Why software must be free
=========================

.. By :doc:`Luc Saffre </about/cv>`, independant developer of free
   customized database applications.

In this article I try to explain to deciders of public institutions
and private enterprises, why software must be free, 
why your organization should
choose --or migrate to-- `Linux
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux>`_ rather than `Windows
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_Windows>`_ or `OS X
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OS_X>`_.
why this choice is currently not the mainstream 
and why you should nevertheless consider it.

This is just my private summary, it is not finished and probably never
will be.

It is a choice
==============

The world of free software and the world of `proprietary software
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proprietary_software>`_ are two
separate universes.  They communicate sometimes, but they are
substantially different and cannot merge.


It's about power
================

Democracy has its weaknesses.  Currently most people wouldn't even
manage to govern a sandwich bar for more than a few years in a
democratic way. Not to speak about a village, a country or a planet.
Every year brings at least one sad example of a dictature which tries
to gain power over their neighbours.

But our western civilization is based on the assumption that
governments should be democratic.  History has told us that
monarchies, aristocracies and dictatures fail to bring peace and
welfare in the long run.  "Democracy is a poor system of government at
best; the only thing that can honestly be said in its favor is that it
is about eight times as good as any other method the human race has
ever tried."  [#heinlein]_

The European Union and the United Nations are not free of problems,
but we must be immensely grateful for having them.  Governing the
earth in a peaceful way is one of the big challenges of humanity.
Already the Old Testament speaks about it (`Gen 1:28
<http://www.kingjamesbibleonline.org/Genesis-1-28/>`_).

Eric S.  Raymond describes in `The Cathedral and the Bazaar
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Cathedral_and_the_Bazaar>`_ the
democratic ("bazaar") and monocratic ("cathedral") models.

But do our democratic structures actually govern the world?  Recent
years reveal a *shift of power from national states to transnational
corporations* [#vatican]_.

The free software question is a political choice.  It is about whether
we want to be governed by a monopolistic dictature or a democratic
community.


If we want to rule the world in a democratic way, then we need to
switch over to free software *as soon as possible* and *at any price*.
*As soon as possible* because the power of proprietary software giants
is growing every year.  And *at any price* because choosing free
software is not the easier way.

The easier way is to close your eyes and let others decide. But such
inadvertance might lead to dictature and slavery.


Why it is a political choice
============================

You might wonder how you computer can be the battefield of a political
war.

    Imagine that you are the owner of a well-running sandwich bar in a
    little town. And as your sandwich bar gets more and more
    customers, you decide to engage an assistant to help you. And
    because your assistant is trustworthy and capable, you delegate
    more and more reponsibilities to him.  
    
    Then imagine that you need to move to another town and designate
    your friend to become the manager of your sandwich bar.  The
    manager continues to send you regular financial reports about your
    sandwich bar.
    
    Now imagine that after some time you discover that the manager of
    your sandwich bar would refuse to show the invoices he received
    and issued, and the statements of your bank accounts, saying "My
    financial reports are enough, I don't want you to see the
    underlying detailed bookings because it is my privacy how I
    realized the results."  
    
    How would you react? 
    
You would probably fire this manager, maybe even file a lawsuit
against him.

That's how enterprises are run.  The managers do the dirty work of
ruling, and they write regular activity reports to the owners. The
managers gets a salary, and the owners get the profit.  The owners
continue to control their enterprise or institution because they can
fire their managers at any moment.

That's how enterprises are run, and that's also how a computer works.
The computer hardware are the rooms of your sandwich bar, the
operating system is the manager. You communicate with your manager
using the keyboard and the monitor.

The point of this story is that **while you would probably fire such a
manager in a real-world enterprise, in a computer which runs
closed-source software this is happening constantly.** The more our
everyday lives depend on computers, the more it is important to ask
who controls these computers.

I hope that this picture opens your eyes, and that you start to feel
with me why it is time to wake up.



Why it is difficult
===================

Choosing free software is actually not difficult. But most people
*believe* that it is so, and this causes miscellaneous problems.  You
will need measurable additional effort because you are leaving the
mainstream.

Here are some examples of the challenges you are going to face if you
decide for free software:

- Psychological effects ("Under Windows it would work better") ranging
  from personal reproaches for your decision to measurable
  side-effects caused by `self-fulfilling prophecies
  <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-fulfilling_prophecy>`_.

- Using free software means that it is more difficult to get trained
  human resources, professional support, specialized hardware.

- The end-users themselves are reluctant to change their habits
  because they use proprietary software at home.

You will need to consider these challenges and decide bravely how to
react to them


Misleading ethical questions
============================

A text titled "Unavoidable Ethical Questions About Open Source"
published by the Santa Clara Univerity in Silicon Valley is formulated
as a series of ethical questions which express common arguments
against free software [#scu_questions]_.  Here are these questions,
together with my answers:

- Is human knowledge advanced by full and free access to all
  information, allowing engineers and developers to correct and
  improve on already existing systems? -- **Yes. This is demonstrated
  by the existing free software itself and and explained by many
  authors better than I could do it.**

- Or does a lack of strong protection for IP discourage innovation by
  removing the financial incentive for developing it? -- **Innovation
  is done by creative humans who act primarily because they love their
  work and not because they get money for it. Many modern slaves do
  some job just because they are getting money in return of the
  lifetime and energy they spend for working on some project which is
  not their's. These are not usually the ones who bring innovation.**

- Classically, free speech is understood as a right, but is this a
  useful way to think about open source software? Is there anything in
  the nature of software that would give people a right to it in the
  same way that we have a right to speech? -- **Writing software is
  substantially the same activity as writing a prosa text.
  Prohibiting to share software is like prohibiting to share
  texts. Proprietary software violates the basic human right for free
  speech.**

- Is it fair to expect software developers to create and distribute
  their intellectual product without restrictions while we do not
  expect the same from other inventors or producers? -- **The free
  software industry shows that commercial licensing is not the only
  way of making money using software.  There are better methods to pay
  software developers for their work.**

- The Vatican document “Ethics in Internet” argues that “use of the
  new information technology... needs to be informed and guided by a
  resolute commitment to the practice of solidarity in the service of
  the common good.” Flowing from this view, the document says that
  “cyberspace ought to be a resource of comprehensive information and
  services available without charge to all, and in a wide range of
  languages. The winner in this process will be humanity as a whole
  and not just a wealthy elite that controls science, technology, and
  the planet's resources.” Is this view applicable to software as
  well? -- **The Vatican's document takes a beautifully clear position
  against proprietary software.  Software is stored knowledge about
  how a given job can be done. This is information. It is
  comprehensive only in the source code form.**

- (...) But to others, “sharing” software is like having to consent to
  its theft because the sharer is giving away someone’s work product,
  which is the result of sweat and ingenuity and which has monetary
  value, as well. Will open source inculcate the virtues of friends or
  of thieves? -- **Yes, using proprietary software without permission
  is theft, don't do that. Using free software is never theft because
  the author has publicly given their permission to share their work.
  Note that the "monetary value" is usually not owned by those who
  gave their "sweat and ingenuity".**

While my above answers --hopefully-- give satisfying answers to the
given arguments [#jesuits]_, all these thoughts are rather misleading
regarding to our original question about why software must be free.

Free software is definitively not about money, neither about the price
of the product nor about the wage of the author.

It's not about short-term freedom
=================================

Richard Stallman's `Free Software Definition
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Free_Software_Definition>`_ states
that users of free software get the freedom to look at source code, to
change it and to share their modifications.  The problem with this
formulation is that normal software users don't want that freedom.

Normal users want to be able to phone their friend and ask "How do you
do when you want to format this document in two columns instead of
one?"  And they want well-written documentation and a series of books
about their software so that they can look up themselves how to solve
their problems.  That's the kind of freedom they want.  And that's the
kind of freedom they are more likely to get when they use wide-spread
software products owned by some international worldwide corporation.

When we define freedom as "the power or right to act, speak, or think
as one wants" [#oxford1]_, then there is no need for free software
because proprietary software does not violate this freedom more often
than free software.  

So free software isn't about this kind of freedom.

But freedom also means "absence of subjection to foreign domination or
despotic government" or "the state of not being imprisoned or
enslaved".  [#oxford2]_ These meanings are more difficult to grasp
because they are less related to our everyday activities.

Think for example about a woman who enjoys wearing clothes which make
her more attractive to men.  There are probably not many such women in
Afghanistan.  Most women in Afghanistan probably can't even imagine
that they are missing some part of life's joys. If you asked one of
them whether she would like to wear western clothes, you will probably
get a negative answer. So they are free, aren't they?

If you agree that women in Afghanistan are as free as those in Belgium
or the United states, then proprietary software is for you. Don't read
on.

But if you care about the sovereignty and liberty of your enterprise,
then you should ask questions.

- Who will help us when something goes
  wrong?  Who is responsible for maintaining that software, for giving
  support to its end-users?

- How sustainable is my investment?  Who is going to decide whether to
  switch to some newer technology?  Or to discontinue some existing
  product and push us to migrate to a newer one?

- Who is going to analyze our needs, decide how to cope with new
  challenges, which new functionalities should be implemented and
  which not?

- How competent is that person or organization? How is the
  price-quality ratio? Do they have concurrents? Are they being
  regulated by the free market?




Success stories
===============

- `How Munich rejected Steve Ballmer and kicked Microsoft out of the
  city
  <http://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-munich-rejected-steve-ballmer-and-kicked-microsoft-out-of-the-city/>`_



.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#heinlein] `Robert A. Heinlein
               <https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Robert_A._Heinlein>`_

.. [#vatican] `Ethics in Internet
              <http://www.vatican.va/roman_curia/pontifical_councils/pccs/documents/rc_pc_pccs_doc_20020228_ethics-internet_en.html>`_
              (Pontifical Council for Social Communications, Vatican
              City, February 22, 2002.


.. [#scu_questions] `Unavoidable Ethical Questions About Open Source
                    <http://www.scu.edu/ethics/publications/submitted/open-source.html>`_

.. [#jesuits] It is funny that catholic monks seem to be more
              concerned about money than about anything else.

.. [#oxford1] First meaning of freedom according to `Oxford dictionary
              <http://www.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/english/freedom>`_

.. [#oxford2] See most other meanings of freedom according to `Oxford
              dictionary
              <http://www.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/english/freedom>`_

