:date: 2019-01-18

========================
Friday, January 18, 2019
========================

I worked on :ticket:`2798` (A Lino for Yvonne).

At first I thought to extend :ref:`cosi`.  Yes, Lino Cos√¨ is meant to show how
easy accounting can be if you do it with Lino, that's why it has "only"
accounting.  No orders and offers. The only addition to a pure accounting app
is the possibility write sales invoices using a list of configurable products
because otherwise it makes really no sense.

But the Cosi project is basically asleep and might never wake up. Finding a
user who wants to do bare accounting in Lino is rather utopic because there are
enough pure accounting software for cheaper than any free software can be.

That's why I thought "Why not change its destiny and use it for Yvonne". That's
why  in :ref:`cosi` we now have two product types "services" and "products".
That's why :ref:`cosi`  now has its own :mod:`lino_cosi.lib.products` plugin.

But then I decided to leave Cosi minimalistic and start a new application
for Yvonne. :ref:`pronto` was born.

The categories (:class:`lino_xl.lib.products.Category`) now have a field
:attr:`product_type <lino_xl.lib.products.Category.product_type>` (i.e. all
applications that depend on it need to migrate).  This is because I realized
that categories are not useless.  The difference between the "category" and the
"type" of a product is that end-users can edit the former while the latter are
to be provided by the application developer.

I fixed a subtle bug in the :meth:`lino_xl.lib.accounting.Plugin.setup_main_menu`
method: the Accounting menu came before the Sales menu because a menu for
"ledger" was being created before looping over the journal groups. I removed an
unused plugin attribute :attr:`intrusive_menu` (whether a journal group is
"intrusive" or not now depends on its :attr:`menu_group`).

I undid a change I made yesterday : the "Offers" journal is not added in
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.accounting.fixtures.minimal_ledger` but in
:mod:`lino_pronto.lib.pronto.fixtures.demo`.  Because in :ref:`cosi` we don't
want any offers (at least not in the demo... it's still possible to add a
journal in a Cosi site).