:date: 2019-01-18

========================
Friday, January 18, 2019
========================

I worked on :ticket:`2798` (A Lino for Yvonne).

At first I thought to extend :ref:`cosi`.  Yes, Lino Così is meant to show how
easy accounting can be if you do it with Lino, that's why it has "only"
accounting.  No orders and offers. The only addition to a pure accounting app
is the possibility write sales invoices using a list of configurable products
because otherwise it makes really no sense.

But the Cosi project is basically asleep and might never wake up. Finding a
user who wants to do bare accounting in Lino is rather utopic because there are
enough pure accounting software for cheaper than any free software can be.

That's why I thought "Why not change its destiny and use it for Yvonne". That's
why  in :ref:`cosi` we now have two product types "services" and "products".
That's why :ref:`cosi`  now has its own :mod:`lino_cosi.lib.products` plugin.

But then I decided to leave Cosi minimalistic and start a new application
for Yvonne. :ref:`pronto` was born.

The categories (:class:`lino_xl.lib.products.Category`) now have a field
:attr:`product_type <lino_xl.lib.products.Category.product_type>` (i.e. all
applications that depend on it need to migrate).  This is because I realized
that categories are not useless.  The difference between the "category" and the
"type" of a product is that end-users can edit the former while the latter are
to be provided by the application developer.

I fixed a subtle bug in the :meth:`lino_xl.lib.accounting.Plugin.setup_main_menu`
method: the Accounting menu came before the Sales menu because a menu for
"ledger" was being created before looping over the journal groups. I removed an
unused plugin attribute :attr:`intrusive_menu` (whether a journal group is
"intrusive" or not now depends on its :attr:`menu_group`).

I undid a change I made yesterday : the "Offers" journal is not added in
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.accounting.fixtures.minimal_ledger` but in
:mod:`lino_pronto.lib.pronto.fixtures.demo`.  Because in :ref:`cosi` we don't
want any offers (at least not in the demo... it's still possible to add a
journal in a Cosi site).