:date: 2019-02-22

=========================
Friday, February 22, 2019
=========================


Mads Michael found his first Lino bug: Uploading files under Python 3 caused a
server error :message:`Exception Value: a bytes-like object is required, not
'str'` (:ticket:`2845`).
The problem was obviously in :meth:`handle_uploaded_files` of
:class:`lino.mixins.uploadable.Uploadable`.
I fixed it.
I tested only manually whether uploading a
file having non-ascii chars in its name works under both Python 2 and 3.
TODO: write a test case to cover this.

I realized that the "library files" feature was overkill for our case. MM and I
will probably not need this feature, I will simply forward incoming invoices to
him and he will enter them in Lino and then upload the file.

Today from 9 to 10 I had the first meeting with MM as our potential future
accountant.

Both Hamza and Tonis missed our third stand-up meeting.  I hope that we agree
that these meetings are a good thing and that three times a week is not too
much, and that it is a good habit to cancel your appointments when you know
that you can't join a meeting. OTOH I cannot even be angry with them because
who knows when it would happen to me.  I prefer to say that Life is more
important than work, and that appointments are made for the team, not the team
for appointments.  We do not offer service level agreements where we promise a
quick response time to our customers.

I fixed :ticket:`2811` for Johanna.

I saw a typo in the the specs about :mod:`lino_xl.lib.cal` and started to
review the whole specs page.  I rebuilt the book.  And zack, one hour of
worktime was gone.

I fixed a bug which caused a UnicodeEncodeError in
:ref:`lino.specs.export_excel` on `Travis
<https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/book/jobs/497045894#L4665>`__ and
possibly in other situations as well. Yes, Hamza is the culprit for this
problem, it was introduced `here
<https://github.com/lino-framework/lino/commit/2871a035d803ee1534967e4080c54c53492ef44c#diff-34158302c2d9d8dfc449fa7b22c4de10>`__.




$ pip install -U openpyxl


