:date: 2019-02-23

===========================
Saturday, February 23, 2019
===========================

Hamza might be going to work with Mathieu on :ref:`welfare`. He is more
motivated in using Lino in the real world as an application developer than in
optimizing the framework as a tool.  This became visible in December when I
tried to get him to work with Thierry.  This experiment failed because I had
tried to delegate both the analyst and the programmer part of me, and because
of language problems.  Our customers don't agree to formulate their
requirements in English. Application developers are actually more expensive
than core developers because they must be able to communicate with your
customers.  So let's hope that Mathieu and Hamza will fit well together.

While this is very exciting and positive, it leaves a hole in our core
development. We need people to monitor our Travis projects, fix standard
problems related to Python or Django, help us to measure and increase test
coverage.

This morning I saw discussions on django-users like `looking for team members
as my technical Advisory
<https://groups.google.com/forum/#!msg/django-users/Z4sRDUsGHfo/vRa8KKkFBQAJ>`__
or `Work from home opportunites
<https://groups.google.com/forum/?utm_medium=email&utm_source=footer#!msg/django-users/OHv0tVavjz4/f4hhrJw1BQAJ>`__
and so I thought that it is time to write to the django-users group something
like this:

  Call for volunteer helpers to join our team.

  The Lino framework replaces the Django admin by an alternative front end and
  adds some features that we consider important for us, but not feasible in
  "normal" Django. We use Python classes instead of templates for defining
  screen layouts, we use our own permission and authentication system, we use
  "intelligent demo data", field injection, choice lists and other things. It's
  not easy to understand *why* we do this.

  Lino is currently developed and maintained by a distributed team of three
  full-time developers, paid by a small community of fascinated customers.

  We need help with monitoring our projects on GitHub and Travis, fix standard
  problems related to Python or Django, help us to measure and increase test
  coverage.

  https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework
  https://github.com/orgs/lino-framework/dashboard

  The Lino framework is composed of a dozen of repositories and
  We need at least one more full-time developer having experience in Django and
  open source tools. We collaborate rather like a family than using industry
  standard.  We expect each paid member to do their best. We don't ask more.
  We don't want obedient service providers who execute what the boss demands
  without asking why.  We don't want perfect people

  We value mistakes and want to
  learn from them instead of hiding them away.




The Django users

In the :ref:`book` I replaced many occurrences of the words "user interface" by
the words "front end".


http://www.lino-framework.org/
https://saffre-rumma.net/

