:date: 2019-02-28

===========================
Thursday, February 28, 2019
===========================

I continued what I started yesterday : move the chatelet part our of the
:mod:`lino_welfare` package into a new package :mod:`lino_welcht`. This also
caused changes in welfare and book.

Sorry, Hamza, you will have a bit of additional work because you some
uncommitted local changes in welfare which must get moved over to
:ref:`welcht`.

Summary of the changes

- lino_welfare.chatelet  -->  lino_welcht

- :mod:`lino_welcht` itself is now used as plugin : it contains no models but the
  :xfile:`locale` directory for the translations.

- New repository https://github.com/lino-framework/welcht

- removed lino_welfare/chatelet from welfare repo

- removed welfare_fr from manuals repo

- Central project page (the output of the :xfile:`docs` doctree of the welcht
  repo) is published at http://welcht.lino-framework.org

- French documentation (the output of the :xfile:`frdocs` doctree of the welcht
  repo) is published at http://fr.welfare.lino-framework.org  (keep existing
  URLs)


We should do the same operation for weleup soon, so that welfare is really just
a library (like xl).


Released Lino Welfare 19.2.0 in order to test the install instructions for welcht.


Building docs under Python 3
=============================


I had a file with a name containing a non-ascii char in one of my blogs.  This
causes a problem when running :cmd:`inv clean -b` under Python 2 in that
project.  I thought "Okay, let's switch to Python 3 for building all our Sphinx
docs".

But :cmd:`inv bd` fails under Python 3 for projects that use sphinxfeed.
sphinxfeed needs feedformatter which didn't evolve sincs 2009. Yes
https://feedgen.kiesow.be/ might be a replacement.  But for now I decided to
rename the non-ascii file and leave this for a later date.