:date: 2019-03-02

=======================
Saturday, March 2, 2019
=======================

I started to review the README files of lino, xl and cosi so that newcomers
like Marc would find us more easily.  (I am not yet satisfied...)


The Lino team started using Mattermost
======================================

We started to use https://framateam.org/lino-dev as our platform for
discussion. This service is run by `framasoft
<https://framasoft.org/en/association>`__, a non-profit organization in France
using `Mattermost <https://www.mattermost.org/>`__, an open source, self-hosted
Slack-alternative.

I checked the `License <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/blob/master/LICENSE.txt>`__
and their `Manifesto <https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/manifesto.html>`__
and think that it is okay.

Slack ask 6,25€ per user per month and I think that framasoft should
theoretically get some amount like this from us for their service. OTOH also
the PSF and the DSF deserve some donations from Lino. And we must keep an eye
on our budget.  Until now Rumma & Ko has been profitable and that's a good
thing because it allows us to grant the wage for Tonis and Hamza at least until
end of 2019.  But at the moment my feeling says that we cannot afford any
donations.

Another thing (after reading `Mattermost vs. Slack for Enterprise
<https://mattermost.com/mattermost-vs-slack/>`__) is that actually we should
rather self-host our own instance of Mattermost.

Two impulses this week told me that this step was an urgent one:

Greg Polec writes in `Software Development Outsourcing setbacks to avoid from
now on
<https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/software-development-outsourcing-setbacks-avoid-from-now-greg-polec/>`__
that communication with a team of developers is a key factor for successful
outsourcing, and that outsourcers must "minimize the risk of ineffective
communication".  How true! He then advises team project management tools such
as as Jira, Trello, or Slack because "all works are transparent for both sides"
and the customer gets "a constant control over a current developers’ progress".

And earlier this week, when I was still pondering the idea of eating our own
dog food for our team chats by extending :ref:`noi` to make it usable from a mobile
device, Vahur wrote about Slack: "Ma olen täielik fänn. Soovitan ikkagi Slack
desktopi rakendust. Seal on kõige mugavam mitut workspace'i paralleelselt
jälgida."

Yes I am satisfied with that step. Mattermost shows that extending Noi would
have been a lot of work.

This step will will influence our way of reporting about our work: many of our
comments in :ref:`noi` will probably be replaced by Mattermost posts.

At least when we have found a solution for getting regular backups of our data
on framateam. Framasoft `writes
<https://contact.framasoft.org/fr/faq/#team_export>`__ that getting a backup of
our team data is currently not possible but that Mattermost are thinking about
this feature: `MM-435 <https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/MM-435>`__. This
ticket however doesn't seem of high priority to them. Because they have an
almost  equivalent feature: the `Bulk Export Tool
<https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/bulk-export.html>`__. It means that
framateam might develop  an API for getting our backup from their server to one
of our machines.  We cannot really rely on them as long as this isn't done.
Okay already now it's better than chatting on Hangouts, which was really almost
equivalent of just talking.  What I want in the long run is to have all our
developer chats about Lino be stored as part of the project somewhere in a safe
and public place, together with the source code and the docs.

