:date: 2019-03-05

======================
Tuesday, March 5, 2019
======================

Hamza and I were glad to have the production upgrade done and the release notes
published, but there is more to do: the developer documentation and the test
suite (:ref:`specs`) needs to be updated.



But before doing so, I must do another step of reorganizing these specs. The
specs for welcht were still in the book repository. Now I moved them to the
welcht repository.  As a consequence the ``mathieu`` demo project moved to
:mod:`lino_welfare.projects.mathieu` (because it is no longer needed in the book, and it is
now needed for testing the specs in welcht).

I am currently still trying to get the following references to work:

- :ref:`welcht` (the central project page)
- :mod:`lino_welcht` (the welcht API)
- :ref:`welcht.specs` (the specs for welcht)
- `welcht.about` (the about page for welcht)
- :ref:`welcht.changes` (changes for welcht)
- :ref:`welfare.changes` (changes for welfare)

Some of above links don't yet work.  Read on for the explanaation.

We need to decide for every doctree who is the "maintainer" or "publisher". The
maintainer of a doctree is the person who runs :cmd:`inv pd`, which syncs his
locally generated html output files to :file:`/home/xxx/public_html/yyy_zzz` on
:ref:`lf` where xxx is the username, yyy is the project's nickname and zzz is
the name of the doctree within the project.

There are two doctrees in welcht :

- docs (technical docs in English)
- frdocs (the French docs)

Hamza is already the maintainer for frdocs (we configured Apache to serve
/home/hamza/public_html/welcht_frdocs to fr.welfare.lino-framework.org), but I
am (currently)  still the maintainer of the technical welcht docs.  We will
make Hamza the maintainer of these as well as soon as I explained all this to
him.

This morning *I* (not Hamza) updated the frdocs for welcht and added some new
reference targets.

Theoretically I cannot refer to these targets from my blog until Hamza has
built and published these frdocs.  Which disturbed me at least for above
references. This is because :mod:`atelier.sphinxcontrib.interproject` uses the
"official" :xfile:`objects.inv` file on :ref:`lf` which is still the old
version.  To get them work nevertheless, I added a new
:envvar:`ATELIER_USE_LOCAL_BUILDS` to tell atelier that it should use my local
copies.  But that didn't work as at first. I had to re-read the docs about
`intersphinx_mapping
<https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/extensions/intersphinx.html#confval-intersphinx_mapping>`__
and discover that either it has changed or I didn't understand it when wrote
the code in :mod:`atelier.sphinxcontrib.interproject`.  Fixed the bug.  Now I
can build my blog, and it generates the correct references.  The only thing is
that if you click on them you get a "Your file was not found" because (this is
not my job)  Hamza must  now pull my changes and build and publish these docs
before they get official.

As a summary, I had some work with fixing intersphinx problems. And that's
normal because we are using them now even more than before.

Note also that we might avoid the question of "Who is the maintainer?" if we
would use readthedocs for all our doctrees.
