:date: 2019-03-15

======================
Friday, March 15, 2019
======================

Today I changed my default Python environment from py27 to py36.

Support Python 3 (by using feedgen instead of feedformatter)
============================================================

My sphinxfeed fork now works under Python 3.

To generate the RSS feeds for my blogs I use `sphinxfeed
<https://github.com/lsaffre/sphinxfeed>`__. Which uses feedformatter, which is
dead.  So I had replace it. See also :doc:`0228`.  But which replacement to
choose? There is Santiago Valdarrama's `rfeed
<https://github.com/svpino/rfeed>`__, but Lars Kiesow's `feedgen
<https://feedgen.kiesow.be>`__ seems a better choice because `GitHub
<https://github.com/lkiesow/python-feedgen>`__ shows 31 contributors and last
commit was in December 2018.

The change was not fully trivial because the APIs differ quite much.
sphinxfeed now needs dateutil to find the local timezone which is now required
for generating the RSS file.

Related commits:

- 2019-03-15 06:16 in *sphinxfeed*:
  `1d25ae7 <https://github.com/lsaffre/sphinxfeed/commit/8def303de772d7e38671eee07540006441d25ae7>`__
- 2019-03-15 06:25 in *blog*:
  `787415d <https://github.com/lsaffre/blog/commit/8c2857bf5266eab06674ed5537ac66734787415d>`__
- 2019-03-15 12:26 in *patrols*:
  `3a3a7c1 <https://github.com/lsaffre/lino-patrols/commit/d8f4c0abf3fe2bf999e62055082273f493a3a7c1>`__
- 2019-03-15 12:26 in *logos*:
  `38333c4 <https://github.com/lsaffre/lino-logos/commit/3e7d6afd40fdd9c98d0e3a68e58d7fa7338333c4>`__

Result: All my blogs are now being built under Python 3.

On `this thread <https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/issues/2>`__ TormodLandet
writes that `sphinxcontrib-newsfeed
<https://pypi.org/project/sphinxcontrib-newsfeed/>`__ supports Python 3 since
2015.  Why am I not using this?  I vaguely remember that I *did*  use it in the
beginning but were not satisfied because it is more difficult to configure and
requires more everyday typing.


React front-end for Lino getting ready
======================================

I did :ticket:`2889`: All references to tickets in this blog (made using
:rst:role:`ticket`) now link to hobbit instead of bugs.  For me this was just a
setting in my :xfile:`conf.py` file, but for Lino it is a historic step: it
shows that the :ref:`react` front-end is now far enough to start using it.
There are still some quirks, but for everyday work it is usable. We started
using it on our :ref:`noi` instance at https://hobbit.saffre-rumma.net

Related commits:

- 2019-03-15 12:26 in *blog*:
  `b8204c4 <https://github.com/lsaffre/blog/commit/9dabbbbe984ecec92116b90949970d373b8204c4>`__

Lino Presto continued
=====================

Alle h채ndisch erstellten Rechnungen (G, GH, R...) werden jetzt nicht mehr als
Auftr채ge erfasst, sondern als Verkaufsrechnungen.  Pro Arbeitsbereich ein
eigenes Journal.  Die Nummern der h채ndischen Rechnungen werden bis auf weiteres
(wenn 체berhaupt) im Feld Betreff eingegeben. (Oder muss hier eine Kontrolle
stattfinden?  Und wenn ja, wie soll das vor sich gehen?)

DONE:

- Removed bevats plugin as they don't use it

- This required to define at least one VAT regime in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.vat`

- :class:`lino_xl.lib.ledger.MatchRule` now has :attr:`allow_cascaded_delete`
  set to "journal" (when you delete a journal, related match rules should delete
  automatically)

- Presto demo fixture removes Journals SLS and SLC.

TODO:

- New journals have no match rules
- hide VAT related fields