:date: 2019-03-17

======================
Sunday, March 17, 2019
======================

A mysterious failure in the test suite
======================================

There is currently a failure when we run::

    $ go team
    $ python manage.py test tests.test_notify.TestCase

The link to a ticket in a notification in this test has changed from
"http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/tickets/Ticket/1" to
"http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/tickets/Tickets/1" which causes the `failure
<https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/book/jobs/507172229>`__.

I might simply change the expected text since the difference seems harmless
(both links work), but I can't explain why this difference is there.  Tonis, is
this caused by one of your changes?

Zulip or Noi?
=============

We are currently riding on two horses for our team communication: should we
have our discussions on Jane or on Zulip?

Switching to Zulip is theoretically the wrong direction. Zulip is also just an
application which *could* have been written in Lino.  The Zulip developers did
a lot of manual work just for reinventing basic UI concepts that are not
covered by Django (choicelists, actions, permissions, ...).  The fundamental
idea behind Lino is to be a framework which makes writing applications like
Zulip more efficient.

Nonetheless we are considering this step. It has some advantages.  It would
increase our collaboration with the Zulip community.  It would give us the
know-how and application-level experience of a community who is more powerful
than our little team.  It would bring us features like a mobile app that are
currently out of reach for us to develop, simply because we are only three
full-time developers.

If we switch to Zulip, we should install and maintain our own Zulip instance.
We are working on this.  It is currently waiting for me because it requires an
upgrade to Debian 9 and I must order a backup service, but I have a problem
with signing into their control panel. (I sent them a support request
yesterday.)

At the same time we work on :ref:`noi` and try to make it good enough for our
team communication.

What means "good enough"? What do we need to optimize in :ref:`noi` if we want
it to become a valid concurrent for zulip?

We must probably replace :mod:`lino.modlib.memo.parser` by markdown.  The editor must
have a list of users (to expand ``@``) and a list of tickets (to expand ``#``).
My :mod:`lino.modlib.memo.parser` parser is a nice DIY gadget, but it has no future
because it requires too much typing.

We actually **don't** need **instant notification** in Noi. For questions like
"Are you there?" or messages like "I will make an upgrade on server X in 10
minutes" we can use some standard IM service.  This kind of messages is not
important for future generations of Lino developers.

But questions like `A mysterious failure in the test suite`_ above are
different. This question and the resulting discussion are potentially important
for future Lino developers. Note that I say *potentially*.  Because it is
probably a very silly problem (which makes it a very good example for my
thoughts), but you don't know whether it is "a silly issue" or "a historic
discovery" at the time of discussion. Such discussions usually don't happen
"instantly" because we are so distributed.

Such discussions are an important part of our work as developers, they are as
valuable as the source code itself.

As long as I was the only full-time Lino developer, my blog was good enough for
keeping track of these "discussions" because they were mostly monologues.  They
are "archived" on GitHub since 2009 where everybody can read them:
https://github.com/lsaffre/blog/tree/master/docs/blog
When I had occasional
feedback from some other developer, it was easy to copy the relevant
information to my blog

In a team this approach is no longer realistic. It seems clear that we need to
store our discussions in a database. That database should be able to export a
static "archive view" of our discussions that needs just a browser to view.


Estonian VAT declarations for Così
==================================

I added a plugin :mod:`lino_xl.lib.eevat`.  This is a quickly adapted copy of
bevat, just removed the regimes that make no sense in Estonia.  The declaration
itself will need more work.

A :ref:`cosi` application no longer has a default VAT declaration plugin.  To
get them, you must add the following to your local :xfile:`settings.py` file::

    def get_installed_plugins(self):
        yield super(Site, self).get_installed_plugins()
        yield 'lino_xl.lib.eevat'

The cosi2 demo project now has no VAT declarations at all.
cosi1 has standard Belgian and cosi3 standard Estonian declarations.
Simplified Belgian VAT declarations is in tera1 demo project.


