:date: 2019-03-22

======================
Friday, March 22, 2019
======================

I changed the following in the :xfile:`conf.py` files for book and welfare::

     latex_documents = [
    -  ('index', 'lino.tex', ur'lino', ur'Luc Saffre', 'manual'),
    +  ('index', 'lino.tex', 'lino', 'Luc Saffre', 'manual'),
     ]

Yes indeed, `ur'strings' are a Syntax Errors in Python 3
<https://github.com/ckan/ckan/issues/4039>`__.
And I moved my default environment to Python 3 recently.

It's funny that this didn't occur earlier (during :cmd:`inv bd`).
It seems that Sphinx loads the
the :xfile:`conf.py` in a way which does not cause the problem.
It occurred to me only today when I invoked :cmd:`pp -l`.
The :cmd:`pp` command now (since :doc:`0307`) loads the :xfile:`conf.py` file of every doctree.


Why should a volunteer help us making Lino better?
===================================================

Kishan asked a good question about my request on codementor: "Ok look
interested but what is in it for volunteers apart from monetary benefits."

You can use Lino as a framework for making money in the same way as I did since
2002.



My basic formula with my customers is as follows:

- Interview with the customer in order to check whether their problem is
  something for Lino.

  One aspect is the technical side: whether a Lino style application makes
  sense, whether I am able to write it for them.

  Another aspect is the financial side: they must understand the difference
  between free beer and free speach.  During the first 15 years I worked
  successfully by offering fixed yearly flatrate contracts: the customer pays a
  given sum per year and for this they get my unlimited support.

  Since 2016 I also offer per-hour service where the customer pays for every
  minute of my time (support, analysis, code changes, write documentation).

- If both of us have the feeling that they need a Lino, I write a prototype for
  them.  They don't need to pay for this.

by offering