
:date: 2019-03-26

=======================
Tuesday, March 26, 2019
=======================

Reorganize Welfare repositories
===============================

I continued on :ticket:`2854`.

I created a new repository :ref:`weleup`
and moved :file:`man/welfare_de` to :file:`weleup/dedocs`.

I moved :ref:`welfare` out of :ref:`book`.

The welfare repo is now a library repo, similar to xl.

The welfare repository contains demo projects, specs and api for both weleup
and welcht (it makes no sense to explain welfare without also explaining weleup
and welcht, and it makes no sense to write technical docs about weleup without
also explaining general welfare plugins).

The doctrees of welcht or weleup just contain a short description, installation
instructions and links to the real docs.

We want the :xfile:`__init__.py` files of welfare plugins refer directly to
their specs page.

The doctree of welcht refers to the doctree of weleup.

As a side effect I noticed that the :cmd:`diag` command did not yet work under
Python 3. Fixed. TODO: add a test case for it.

**As if to confirm that this reorganization was useful**, 
Mélanie and Gerd did hard work and reported 
:ticket:`2917`, a bug in
:class:`RefundsByPerson <lino_welfare.modlib.households.RefundsByPerson>`.
This table considered children as adult only one year after the age
specified in :attr:`lino_xl.lib.households.Plugin.adult_age`. I added a test
case to cover this: :ref:`welfare.specs.households.20190326`.

The bug itself was easy (I fixed it using a local patch on their server), 
but reviewing the docs and writing a test case 
is at least as important as fixing the bug itself.  And of course this 
takes more time. But now it was a pure joy.  
Yes, Sphinx makes programmers *want* to document their work.

Realizing a difference afterwards
=================================

I observed an interesting linguistic phenomen:

- welcht (:ref:`welcht`) is different from cpaschatelet (:ref:`cpaschatelet`)
- weleup (:ref:`weleup`) is different from cpaseupen (:ref:`cpaseupen`)

On one side we have the customer who orders and uses an application,
on the other we have the application itself.
Until now I didn't make that differentiation.
And until now I can only *imagine* that some day we might have two different
customers who use the same application.

I now ran a find and replace in the files of this blog and changed the history
of Lino afterwards: welcht (where it meant the customer) becomes cpaschatelet and
weleup (where it meant the customer) becomes cpaseupen.
This was possible because my blog is probably the only document
in the world about these things.

This problem is similar to the problem experienced by Christians with the
differentiation between the concepts of "Holy Scripture" and "Word of God".
Jesus was the first to imagine that there might be more than one Holy
Scriptures to reproduce an eternal and unique "Word of God".


