:date: 2019-03-29

======================
Friday, March 29, 2019
======================

Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market
===================================================

"A Dark Day for the Web: EU Parliament Approves Damaging Copyright Rules"
(Timothy Vollmer in `Creative Commons Newsletter
<https://creativecommons.org/2019/03/26/a-dark-day-for-the-web-eu-parliament-approves-damaging-copyright-rules/>`__, 2019-03-26)

My comment: Has somebody tried to compute how much human power and public money
has been used in the last five years for this discussion? I don't know the
number, but we probably agree that it is *huge*. What a waste of money and
energy! It is wasted since it goes into the wrong direction.  I wrote a `blog
post <http://lutsu.saffre-rumma.net/blog/2019/0329.html>`__ in the Lutsu
project and invite everybody to sign the `Manifesto
<http://lutsu.saffre-rumma.net/manifesto.html>`__.


Test suites
===========

Tonis, Hamza and I had some fun with getting the test suites to pass again
after several days of three committers working frantically.

After upgrading to Sphinx 2.0 the :rst:dir:`tickets_table` directive is broken.
I threw it away without tears.

I moved the last doctree (the german tera docs, :ref:`tera.de`) from the
manuals repository to its due place (/dedocs in :ref:`tera`).  And then I
deleted the manuals repository on GitHub: Your repository
"lino-framework/manuals" was successfully deleted.


Docs about chooser
==================

I started :ticket:`2930` (Add documentation about choosers to the dev guide) :
I converted the :mod:`lino_book.projects.chooser` demo project and to something usable
and moved the docstring of its :xfile:`models.py` module to :ref:`dev.choosers`.

Hamza, the ticket is not done.  I just did the conversion so that you have a
base to work with.  The page is currently just a series of tested examples. The
real task is to change this document into a readable and understandable
introduction to the concept of choosers.  That's much more work, and I hope
that you are more talented than me for this.

