:date: 2019-04-09

======================
Tuesday, April 9, 2019
======================

I digested Mads Michael's feedback about :ref:`cosi` (:doc:`0405`).

I reviewed the specs page about :mod:`lino_xl.lib.vat`

New property :attr:`lino_xl.lib.vat.VatRegime.needs_vat_id`. The chooser
for :attr:`lino_xl.lib.contacts.Partner.vat_regime` now also depends on
whether the partner has a VAT id or not. The choicelist of the vat_regime
field of a voucher wasn't yet filtered. New function
:func:`lino_xl.lib.vat.get_vat_regime_choices` used by both choosers.
The :class:`lino_xl.lib.vat.VatRegimes` table now shows all these properties.

Changes in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.eevat` : removed regime "Private person
(reduced)".  The regime "Private person" can now be used for any area.
Selling to private persons in other countries was not yet allowed.

In :mod:`lino_xl.lib.vat` I changed :attr:`declaration_plugins
<lino_xl.lib.vat.Plugin.declaration_plugins>` to :attr:`declaration_plugin
<lino_xl.lib.vat.Plugin.declaration_plugin>` because I realized that you
can have only one declaration plugin.

New config setting :attr:`eu_country_codes
<lino_xl.lib.vat.Plugin.eu_country_codes>`, and the list is now complete
(at least at the moment of writing this).

:class:`lino_xl.lib.sepa.Payable`  now gives a more comprehensible warning
"No trade type for {}" when the trade type for the voucher is undefined.

I reviewed the :fixture:`demo` fixture of :mod:`lino_xl.lib.contacts`. It has
become more readable.  It no longer creates cities which don't exist (and
instead omits partners in these cities). I removed München and Kelmis
because these are difficult to lookup because their name varies with the
languages used on the site.  Each contact now has at least a city.

The :fixture:`demo` fixture for :mod:`lino_xl.lib.vat` now sets fictive VAT
numbers for each company.

A :manage:`runserver` session in  :mod:`lino_book.projects.cosi3` didn't
work because the :setting:`DEBUG` setting wasn't set to True.

The Explorer menu actions of the VAT plugin were being added to the Sales
menu because the sales plugin needs vat and therefore triggers its
automatic installation, and in that case the automatically installed plugin
does not have its own menu group but inherits the menu group of the plugin
that needs it.

Note that the :fixture:`demo` fixture of :mod:`lino_xl.lib.sepa` adds about 10 real companies
with their real bank account numbers (gathered from their websites), but
only some of them also have a VAT id.  The others get a fictive VAT id in
:fixture:`demo_bookings`.

I started to convert the docs about demo fixtures from the API to prosa
style in a new :ref:`demo_fixtures` page.
I added a new directive and role :rst:dir:`fixture` for documenting fixtures.
I defined the concept of
"loading phases". Uff, this was quite some work! But I think it was needed.
It helped me to better understand what's happening with the demo fixtures
for VAT functionality.  It will make it easier to rename fixtures.

For some applications (e.g. :ref:`tera`) I converted the way of providing
application-specific default values for plugin settings from the old way
(by overriding :meth:`setup_plugins <lino.core.site.Site.setup_plugins>`)
to the new way which is to override :meth:`get_plugin_configs
<lino.core.site.Site.get_plugin_configs>`.

Old::

    def setup_plugins(self):
        super(Site, self).setup_plugins()
        self.plugins.foo.configure(bar='baz')

New::

    def get_plugin_configs(self):
        yield super(Site, self).get_plugin_configs()
        yield ('foo', 'bar', 'baz')

It is important to note that
:meth:`setup_plugins <lino.core.site.Site.setup_plugins>`  is run *after*
:meth:`get_plugin_configs
<lino.core.site.Site.get_plugin_configs>`.
This can cause unexpected behaviour when you mix both methods.

I realized something about the **Difference between the "technical" plugin
order and the order of the menu items**:

End users want to see VAT *after* Sales in their menu because for them it
is rather "implementation stuff". But Sales needs VAT and therefore the VAT
menu items merges into the Sales menu.  One possibility is to remove vat
from the needs_plugins of sales.  But that would cause other problems
because the sales plugin actually does need vat, and the
:fixture:`demo_bookings` fixture in VAT must come before those of sales.

The fact that VAT adds no entries to the user menu indicates this.
Solution: In :meth:`lino.core.site.Site.setup_menu` we now differentiate
between the "technical" plugin order and the order "visible to the end
user".  The end user wants to see menu entries of explicitly installed
plugins before those of automatically installed plugins.

This change had some side effects to the ordering of menu items. IFAICS
they are all positive: the order of menu items should indeed show
explicitly requested functionalities before those which are indirectly
required by the primary functionalities.

Lino now supports choicelist items without a value (i.e.
:attr:`lino.core.choicelists.Choice.value` is `None`).  Such choices cannot
be stored to the database, otherwise they are like normal choicelists.
:class:`lino_xl.lib.vat.VatRules` is the first usage example.

New property :attr:`lino_xl.lib.vat.VatColumn.common_account` and a new
data checker to verify that every VAT column has an account configured if
it requires one.

Lino now supports unbound data checkers. If
:attr:`lino.modlib.checkdata.Checker.model` is `None`, the checker is
unbound, i.e. the problem messages will not be bound to a particular
database object.

:ref:`voga` no longer sets the VatClasses.exempt as
:attr:`default_vat_class`.  The :mod:`lino_book.projects.voga2` demo is
just another case of :mod:`lino_xl.lib.bevats` (like
:mod:`lino_book.projects.tera1`).

Fixed a bug in :manage:`diag` : the plugins were listed in a random
arbitrary order.

Plugin.needed_by is now the immediate parent, not the top-level parent.
The loop to the top is now done only in Plugin.get_menu_group.

I removed `voga.specs.vat` because it was useless.

Summary
=======

Yes, I knew that we will have some work with :ticket:`2810`.  The :ref:`cosi`
project itself (write a simple accounting application) remains utopic and
long-term, but it is important for most remaining TIM users, it might become
our first stable hosting application, and last but not least Mads Michael is a
perfect assistant for it: he is patient and competent.

It took much time because I also reviewed the documentation.  This is a huge
work, my long-term goal is to transfer 25 years of a developer's experience
with accounting databases into free documentation.  It is normal that this will
take some time.

Actually I am not done.  Before I can release a new version I must do manual
testing and some minor layout changes.  But the test suites pass and the docs
build, so I can push my work (about 9 repositories).

