:date: 2019-04-15

======================
Monday, April 15, 2019
======================

A calendar view for Presto
==========================

I started the last big part of the prototype for :ref:`presto` : the calendar
views.  The extensible plugin is not configurable enough and not future-proof.
And anyway the Lino way of doing calendar views is mostly done.  Some subtle
tricks were missing however.

Excerpts from their requirements document:

    Mindestens 3 visuelle Kalendertypen, wie Sie im Transport und Supply Sektor
    zu Planung genutzt werden, sind für die dynamische Planung unabdingbar.

    Alle Kalendertypen sollen recht frei filterbar und ausdruckbar sein.

    Weekly view per worker

    ================== ============ ============ ============ ============
     Weekdays/Worker    Mon 12.01.   Tue 13.01.   Wed 14.01.   ...
    ================== ============ ============ ============ ============
     User A
     User B
     User C
     ...
    ================== ============ ============ ============ ============


This weekend I got a new :class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.DailyView` table to work.  It shows a
basic calendar navigator.  Looks promising, though there is more to do. For
example we also need a WeeklyView and a MonthlyView. They will share the same
navigator.
This required a little change in Lino:

.. currentmodule:: lino.core

New method :meth:`requests.BaseRequest.goto_pk`.  This required a change in
:xfile:`linoweb.js` where I add a global :func:`Lino.goto_record_id` function.

I moved :attr:`handle_uploaded_files <actors.Actor.handle_uploaded_files>` from
:mod:`dbtables` to :mod:`actors` because it is also possible on a virtual table
like DailyView.

Before doing the weekly and month views (and connecting them in the navigator)
I'd like to think with Tonis and Hamza about better implementations.  How to do
it in react. I noted that the :meth:`instance_handler` method on
:class:`renderer.Renderer` has a sub-optimal API which will be inefficient when
generating many links to individual day views. Also the API for defining

Also the DailyView is currently limited to dates betwen -30 and +60. It should
work for any date. But ATM I am afraid that :meth:`request_queryset` is being
called for the detail view as well, generating a useless list of volatile Day
objects for each request.


I am still having :ticket:`2957` (and this keeps me from running the test
suite). Exploring.  But I will nevertheless push my work to master.



Standup meeting
===============

Changes in :ref:`cosi`.  Hamza finished some tickets for Mads Michael. We should
do manual tests now.  I must not do this alone but with Hamza.  Because he wants
to learn, and there is much to learn.

Tonis, please try to get the new cal.DailyView to run under React as well and
optimize the API.

Tonis is working on the specs about :mod:`lino.modlib.summaries`. One question
is how to link to the ESF plugin in Welfare.  The specs for Welfare are now in
their own doctree (part of the welfare repo).  The Welfare docs want to refer
to book, so we cannot use intersphinx for linking from the book to the welfare
docs. Intersphinx itself would allow it, but it would create a circular
dependency when building the docs.

This morning the link was
http://welfare.lino-framework.org/specs/welcht/esf.html

But later I reviewed this page and moved it to
http://welfare.lino-framework.org/specs/esf.html

Because when a plugin library defines a plugin named "xxx", it should have at
least a page :file:`docs/specs/xxx` independently of which demo project is
being used in that page.

Note that from my blog I can refer to this page (here is the proof
:ref:`welfare.specs.esf`) because my blog is one of the last doctrees in the
dependency list.


What an aging project manager should keep in mind
==================================================

A friend of mine left a good job after 25 years. I asked why. He told me that
the main reason was the attitude or behaviour of their boss:

- Not listening to team members, or ignoring their opinion.

- Getting old but not realizing it

- Not recognizing colleagues who give their best, or even signal the opposite of
  gratefulness.

- Not trying to help conflicting colleagues to reconcile

- Not reacting to *Schlamperei* and *Gammelei* of some, while others work hard
  to get things running.

Lack of social competence?
But has he always been like this?
Why then didn't they complain earlier?
Does age and power change humans and lets them become like this?

