:date: 2019-04-16

=======================
Tuesday, April 16, 2019
=======================

Yesterday I wanted to ask Hamza to do more changes on
:file:`/docs/specs/human.rst`:

- move the tests about birth_date and age into a separate page
- move tests about IncompleteDate to this page
- remove useless tests (now that the bug is fixed)
- move boring content to the end, and interesting features to the beginning.

But we didn't have enough time. Also I realized that you cannot delegate
everything, so I now did it myself:
:ref:`lino.specs.human` and :ref:`lino.specs.born` are now two separate pages.


Chooser doesn't accept more than one argument
=============================================

I saw Hamza's `change
<https://gitlab.com/lino-framework/lino/commit/c319e42f20623d073a0ac37400526d0769da75a9>`__
for :ticket:`2963` (chooser doesn't accept more than one argument) and am
surprised that choosers with more than one context parameter didn't work.


Maybe the problem is rather related to the fact that here they are keyword
arguments?  Or because we inject it?  The following snippets indicate that
everything is correct:

>>> from lino import startup
>>> startup('lino_book.projects.cosi1.settings.doctests')
>>> from lino.api.doctest import *

>>> rt.models.contacts.Partner.vat_regime_choices
<bound method _chooser.<locals>.chooser_decorator.<locals>.wrapped of <class 'lino_xl.lib.contacts.models.Partner'>>

>>> rt.models.contacts.Partner.city_choices
<bound method _chooser.<locals>.chooser_decorator.<locals>.wrapped of <class 'lino_xl.lib.contacts.models.Partner'>>

>>> rt.models.contacts.Partner.vat_regime_choices.context_params

Hm, has the test "if ((this.contextParams[name] != value)" been introduced only
recently?

Did we really not have any chooser with two context parameters?

Okay, I won't dig deeper into this since it works, and it fixes our problem.