:date: 2019-05-01

======================
Wednesday, May 1, 2019
======================

I continued working on :ticket:`2776` (prototype for :ref:`presto`).

Invoicing areas
===============

An **invoicing area** is is used to classify business activities into different
parts for which end users can start separate invoicing plans.

This is used in :ref:`presto` to differentiate between activities that are
invoiced manually based on occasional work and those that are invoiced
automatically based on regular work.  In :ref:`tera` will probably be used to
separate the therapy centres in different towns.

The application is responsible for selecting only invoiceables that belong to
the area of the current plan. In :ref:`presto` we do this by defining a field
`Room.invoicing_area`.


.. currentmodule:: lino_xl.lib.invoicing

Changes in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.invoicing`:

Added a new model :class:`Area` to be configured by the site admin via
:menuselection:`Configure --> Sales --> Areas`.

New field :attr:`Plan.area`.

:attr:`Plan.journal` replaced by :attr:`Area.journal`.

Removed the :class:`StartInvoicingForJournal` action which anyway wasn't used
by anybody.


Demo orders
===========

I extended the :fixture:`demo` fixture for :mod:`lino_presto.lib.presto` so
that it now creates orders.  This took a few hours. It's a complex but
important work.  Only this step makes the demo project useful because without
any orders and calendar entries the demo wasn't obvious to understand.  It is
complex because you need to design how to generate fictive examples which cover
more or less what they want.

Orders arrive randomly, about daily. There are days without any order and days
with more than one order . Teams have their typical number of calendar entries
to generate.


Two new plugin config options for :mod:`lino_xl.lib.ledger`:
:attr:`purchase_stories<lino_xl.lib.ledger.Plugin.purchase_stories>` and
:attr:`sales_stories<lino_xl.lib.ledger.Plugin.sales_stories>`. These are set
to `False` in :ref:`presto` because they plan to use Lino only for generating
invoices, not for their real accounting.

Commits
=======

The test suites are probably broken, but I committed my work
because :mod:`lino_presto.projects.noereth` is now getting interesting for
Hamza and Tonis who are working on :ticket:`2967` (for which :ref:`presto` will
be the pilot user).
