:date: 2019-05-24

====================
Friday, May 24, 2019
====================

I continued to work on :ticket:`881`.

Summary of today's team standup meeting:

- Luc was frustrated because PC is so slow. H and T are satisfied with Visual
  Studio . Maybe Luc should try it, too.

- Luc will fix failures on travis caused by his changes (e.g.
  :file:`book/docs/specs/invoicing.rst` (:ref:`xl.specs.invoicing`).

- Hamza will work on

  - Failures on Travis in Py 3.7 that are not in Py 3.6. Note: why do we test
    both 3.6 and 3.7?  Not sure... but at least it is good to observe the
    differences.

  - Research work for using docker files to provide easy installation instructions for production sites

- Tonis will continue on the React front end. Editable grid widget. Soon a
  release to Hobbit so we can test it on the field. We decided to not buy
  professional support from PrimeReact, which also means that we must maintain
  our own fork.

I think that we can remove the Python 2 environments from the :xfile:`travis.yml` in
book. They are often failing for trivial differences in string representation.
These have taken us much energy and time, but soon they will be history.  Maybe
wait until the last production site has moved to Python 2.


The demo lino_book/projects/20121124 contained backslashes in the docstring
which caused an import failure during coverage.  This project isn't being
tested, and probably we can safely delete it.


An after-release for Avanti
===========================

Johanna reported a (minor) security issue: :ticket:`3021` (Lehrer können Namen
aller eingeschriebenen Teilnehmer sehen).  Which shows that they have motivated
users.  Great!

Indeed, teachers must not see the list of all clients. Only the names of those
who participate in their course. So they cannot be able to add new guests to a
calendar entry or new enrolments to a course. And they should not be able to
edit the Client field of existing guests or enrolments.

I fixed the issue and added a test case to :ref:`avanti.specs.roles`.

While looking at their :xfile:`lino.log` I noticed that the
:attr:`lino_avanti.lib.courses.Course.update_missing_rates` action didn't work.
Fixed.

They asked to change the labels of the fields
:attr:`lino_xl.lib.courses.Enrolment.pupil` and
:attr:`lino_xl.lib.cal.Guest.partner` from "Client" to "Participant".  And I
changed this in the XL because it seems to make sense for everybody.
The test suite will probably have quite some failures because of this.