:date: 2019-05-30

======================
Thursday, May 30, 2019
======================

I worked on :ticket:`3032` and :ticket:`2827` (learning vim) at the same time.1

When I opened a py file, vim said::

    "lino_book/projects/crl/fixtures/hs2lino.py" 377L, 11942C
    Error detected while processing BufRead Auto commands for "*.py":
    E518: Unknown option: set
    E28: No such highlight group name: BadWhitespace

This was caused by some errors in my :xfile:`~/.vimrc` file.
Thanks to
`this <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40002791/vim-plugin-youcompleteme-error-message>`__
and `this <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36741450/vim-setting-error-under-bufread>`__.

The problem was only in :file:`lino_book/projects/min9/myscript.py`


The next :ref:`weleup` release
==============================

I continued working on the next release for :ref:`weleup` (:ticket:`3034`).


The release notes are in :ref:`weleup.18.11.0`.

Yes, the preparations for this release have started in November 2018
(:ticket:`2620`), our date-based versioning system has at least one
disadvantage: for customers with very long release cycles we actually don't
know the version number when we start working on a release. That's why Debian
give a name to every release. Naming our releases wouldn't be a solution for us
because we have so many products.  Imagine we would have to imagine new series
of release names for each application.

First step is to update their preview site and run the migration scripts.

I reviewed the documentation about preview sites. As a first step I changed the
expression "testing site" into "preview site".  "testing" seems suboptimal as a
designation for this idea.  :xfile:`restore2preview.py`

I reviewed their :xfile:`pull.sh` script. We will switch their new version to
use the PyPI version of Lino and XL (it is something they have been asking for
repeatedly because it will reduce unexpected changes during the active end-user
test phase). Tidy-up dependencies. I moved the :mod:`lino_xl.lib.b2c` plugin
from cosi to xl.  This plugin was still hanging in cosi because I was worried
about potential copyright issues. The plugin uses two files which were
originally copied from odoo and which are GPL licensed.  But meanwhile I
believe that a BSD project may include work which is GPL licensed. I moved it