:date: 2019-06-15

=======================
Saturday, June 15, 2019
=======================


Yesterday I had a Jitsi session with Hamza for :ticket:`2779`.  Together we had
some success. Of course we did not yet reach the end.  But at least I am
unlocked.  Thanks, Hamza!

At some moment we saw Tonis' comments in :ref:`jane` about his next steps with
:ticket:`3041`.  I said to "Look, Hamza, you should take Tonis as a good
example in team communication.  You are a rather introvert communicator.  You
are competent, but you don't care or don't "dare" writing comments in Jane
about what you are thinking."  Hamza answered "Yes, I know".

Now I read `Managing Developers: 6 Best Practices for Remote Teams
<https://www.codementor.io/blog/remote-team-management-71fr8n76hq>`__ which
speaks about the "right traits" members of a remote team should have.  The
first one is "Effective Communicator":

    "Remote developers must be able to communicate project information effectively,
    skilfully conveying useful information through appropriate media. This means
    that the emails and texts they send out should be concise and accurate. On
    calls and in meetings, they should be able to articulate themselves clearly.
    This is crucial because misunderstandings and miscommunications can bring
    productivity to a crawl. "

You see, Hamza? It is important! Of course you see! And of course you knew it
before.

But we both also know that nobody can change from an "introvert" to a
"communicating" person only by deciding so. And then the document says "Hire
for (*or Cultivate*) These Traits in Your Developers".  The "(or Cultivate)" is
what I like most.  Hamza, I see that you are motivated to improve your
communication skills.  I also have no recipe for *how* to get there, but I see
that you are working on it, and I am confident that you *will* get there,
inshalla and with our help. May God bless you on this way :-)

Actually the article mentions much more advices for *me* as the manager of our
team.  My reaction to these advices is similar to Hamza's reaction to my
advice: "Yes, I know" (meaning "I know *that* I should become like this, but no
idea *how* I should become like this").