:date: 2019-06-20

=======================
Thursday, June 20, 2019
=======================

I worked on :ticket:`3086` (together with Hamza at the beginning). Some
optimizations for managing absences and holidays of workers.

Changes needed for :ref:`presto`.

  If a :attr:`presence_guest <lino_xl.lib.cal.Events.presence_guest>` is
  specified this filter no longer applies to entries whose type has
  :attr:`all_rooms <lino_xl.lib.cal.EventType.all_rooms>` enabled (which is the
  case e.g. for holidays).

  Multi-day events must be shown on every day of their date range.  Lino didn't
  yet handle them correctly

  I added a field :attr:`lino_xl.lib.cal.EventType.fill_presences` because not
  all events should automatically fill their presences
  (:class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.Guest`). When
  :attr:`lino_xl.lib.cal.EntryStates.edit_guests` is True, Lino also removes
  unwanted guests each time you hit the save button. But for example in
  :ref:`presto` when registering a absence day  or a worker, the list of
  suggested guests is usually empty (because the project is empty), and we
  don't want Lino to remove any manually added guests.

  The :fixture:`std` fixture for :mod:`lino_xl.lib.cal`  now adds a new entry
  type "Absence" with this configuration. The :fixture:`demo2` fixture adds
  some "absences for private reasons", some of them several days.

En passant this caused an avalanche of optimizations.

I reviewed the way how the filter parameters for calendar entries
(:class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.Event`) are being inherited by the calendar views.
Especially this was a bit too hackerish for me::

    @classmethod
    def setup_parameters(cls, fields):
        cls.params_layout = rt.models.cal.Event.params_layout
        cls.parameters = rt.models.cal.Event.parameters
    super(Events, cls).setup_parameters(rt.models.cal.Event.parameters)


There is a danger that this caused bugs which are not covered by the test
suite.

In the filter parameters of :class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.Events`, I renamed
``partner`` to :attr:`presence_guest <lino_xl.lib.cal.Events.presence_guest>`
and moved some help texts to the specs page.


