:date: 2019-06-28

=====================
Friday, June 28, 2019
=====================

Vouchers are now again duplicable. (:class:`lino_xl.lib.ledger.Voucher`
inherits from :class:`lino.mixins.duplicable.Duplicable`).  The duplicate
button on an invoice disapeared quite some time ago when I removed it from the
Model class because indeed we don't want all objects to be duplicable.

Calendar view : Tonis and I fixed :ticket:`3093`, and we did a first attempt
for :ticket:`3094` (the useluss toolbar is now gone, but currently there is no
refresh button).

Suggesters : the API still needs some changes.
:meth:`lino.utils.memo.Suggester.get_suggestions` cannot be global. It needs to
know the actor and the requesting user. Before continuing on this, I will let
Tonis work a bit on the js side and wait for his feedback.

For :ref:`weleup` they created a new virgin Debian server.  I added a first
user for me, changed the hostname (`not trivial
<https://wiki.debian.org/HowTo/ChangeHostname>`__ next time I should specify a
hostname when ordering a new server) and created
:file:`~/.ssh/authorized_keys`.  Now we should run `getlino` on this, but
getlino is not ready.  Waiting for Hamza.

Back to the calendar view: With Tonis I had had a feeling that I can get the
toolbar navigation working, and wanted to know it. Yes, navigation now also
works using the buttons in the toolbar. I also reviewed and changed some
internals of the calendar views. Took me a few hours:

- New method :meth:`lino.core.actors.Actor.get_navinfo`.

- :class: `lino_xl.lib.cal.CalendarView` navigation now also works using the
  buttons in the toolbar.
