:date: 2019-07-03

=======================
Wednesday, July 3, 2019
=======================


Optimizations for :ref:`cosi`
=============================

I tried to find a solution for :ticket:`3101` (More intuitive data entry for
voucher content). When you created a voucher (invoice, bank statement, ...) it
is difficult to guess that you must now click the "show in own window" button
on the content panel in order to continue.

A simple solution seems to have that button immediately behind the panel's
title instead of in the far right corner.   Similar to the button in the
dashboard.  To implement this, we need to introduce a way to dynamically set
the panel title.  This seems related to :ticket:`3082`.

One side effect is that I moved some code from
:meth:`lino.core.dashboard.DashboardItem.render_request` into a new method
:meth:`open_in_own_window_button
<lino.core.Renderer.open_in_own_window_button>`.

I used the :attr:`sum_text_column <lino.core.actors.Actor.sum_text_column>` of
bank statements because the total text of their content panel looked so silly
that I made two screenshots before and after and wrote some developer docs
about. See :ref:`dev.actors.sums`.

Some optimizations in the :fixture:`minimal_ledger` fixture for
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.accounting`.

A list GET now sets a new response attribute `title_url` parameter (only in
extjs... this code should get generalized).  Not yet used.  Not definitive.

The challenge here is that there is (by design) no separate Ajax call for each
HtmlBoxPanel, so when showing the slave table as html we would need another
field (e.g. htmlbox name suffixed "_title") to set the panel's title
dynamically)

One visible result: the "list" part in the breadcrumbs for a detail window is
now clickable. New method :meth:`lino.core.requests.Request.get_breadcrumbs`.
At least one issue: it forgets manually changed filter params.


I released Lino 19.7.1 and XL 19.7.1 to PyPI (for upgrading our own :ref:`cosi`
production site).

I optimized column layout of :class:`lino_xl.lib.finan.ItemsByJournalEntry`.

I wrote a new page of end-user documentation in German:
http://de.cosi.lino-framework.org/ledger/opening.html


