:date: 2019-07-04

======================
Thursday, July 4, 2019
======================

Optimizations for :ref:`cosi`
=============================

After a meeting with mm I did a set of optimizations for :ref:`cosi`.
See below. En passant I fixed a failure caused by the new suggesters of the
memo parser.

.. currentmodule:: lino_xl.lib.ledger

The duplicate action didn't work on registered vouchers (:class:`Voucher`). And the
and the general behaviour after duplicating a voucher was irritating.

Now the :attr:`number <Voucher.number>` is set to the next
available number and :attr:`entry_date <Voucher.entry_date>`
to today.

General changes for all duplicate actions: The
:class:`lino.mixins.duplicable.Duplicate` action now calls :meth:`full_clean`
on the newly created copy. And it is now readonly (e.g. also callable on a
registered voucher).

.. currentmodule:: lino_xl.lib.vat

In :class:`InvoicesByJournal` the grid layout was still using
:attr:`voucher_date <lino_xl.lib.ledger.Voucher.voucher_date>` instead of
:attr:`entry_date <lino_xl.lib.ledger.Voucher..entry_date>`.  The default behaviour in
:ref:`cosi` is to use only entry_date because this is what counts for accounting.

.. currentmodule:: lino_xl.lib.finan

Added an :class:`UploadsByController <lino.modlib.uploads.UploadsByController>`
panel to the detail layout of :class:`BankStatement`.

The :fixture:`std` fixture of :mod:`lino_xl.lib.ledger` now creates an upload
type "source document". Note that :data:`UPLOADTYPE_SOURCE_DOCUMENT
<lino_xl.lib.ledger.UPLOADTYPE_SOURCE_DOCUMENT>` is 4 in order to avoid
duplicate keys in :ref:`weleup`.


Fine-tuning the memo suggester
==============================

I fixed a error occuring when there were no suggesters defined.

The parser now makes a pattern clickable without adding the full text and with
setting a title for the link so that the text is shown when the mouse hovers
over the link.  I also wrote a new specs page :ref:`specs.noi.suggesters`.

TODO:

- the auto-completer might insert the full text into the editor after the
  pattern. The user can then decide whether to leave it or not.

- The memo commands might also be defined as suggesters with a trigger of type
  "[ticket ". Note that in that case we need to add a new attribute "suffix"
  which would be empty for # and @ but "]" for memo commands.


More intuitive open-in-own-window button
========================================

I did some more attempts to get this working. No success yet.



Releases
========

I released Lino 19.7.2 and XL 19.7.2 to PyPI and upgraded our own :ref:`cosi`
production site.
