:date: 2019-07-11

=======================
Thursday, July 11, 2019
=======================

Today I mainly continued working on :ticket:`3110`. See :doc:`0712`.


About OpenID & Co.
==================

I saw `Cheat sheet: Getting started with Raspberry Pi
<https://opensource.com/downloads/getting-started-raspberry-pi-cheat-sheet>`__
and wanted to download the document.  They want to know who I am. Okay, why
not. But I'd like to use :term:`OpenID` to tell them who I am.  Because I want
to learn.  Here are my reading notes.


.. glossary::

    OpenID

        A series of technologies provided by the :term:`OpenID Foundation`.

    OpenID Foundation

        The `OpenID Foundation <https://openid.net/foundation/>`__ (OIDF)
        "promotes, protects and nurtures the OpenID community and
        technologies."

        They don't provide themselves OpenID servers, they maintain a list of
        providers. Google and Microsoft are among the providers.


    OpenID Connect

        An interoperable authentication protocol based on the :term:`OAuth 2.0`
        family of specifications.

        It is the successor for the deprecated OpenID 2.0.
        It is easier to integrate than its predecessors.

        It uses straightforward REST/JSON message flows.

        It allows clients to verify the identity of an end user based on the
        authentication performed by an authorization server. It also provides
        basic profile information about the end user using a REST API.

        Final specifications were launched in February 2014.
        The certification program was launched in April 2015.
        Google, Microsoft and others were the first to self-certify conformance.


    OAuth 2.0

        An authorization framework (not an authentication protocol).

        Google's OAuth 2.0 implementation for authentication is OpenID
        Certified and conforms to the OpenID Connect specification.


Okay, Google knows me, and they do OpenID Connect, so it should work.

On the opensource.com site I select "Log in using OpenID" and type my
google.com email address. But they say "Sorry, that is not a valid OpenID.
Ensure you have spelled your ID correctly."

Something is missing.

How does Google implement OpenID Connect? The OpenID Connect page
(`developers.google.com
<https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/OpenIDConnect>`__) doesn't
help me, it is meant for the developers at opensource.com.

In the Google API console at https://console.developers.google.com I had
already previously two projects "Lino team*" and "quickstart".

The IBM Knowledge Center explains that I must enable another API in my Google
console, the "Identity Toolkit API" ("lets you use open standards to verify a
user's identity.").

That sounds right. Enable. Try again to get my cheat sheet.  Nope.

So I am locked and should ask somebody to help me get out of here.  Enough for
this time.


Sources:

- OpenID Connect (`openid.net <https://openid.net/connect/>`__)
- OAuth vs. OpenID – What’s the difference? (`gluu.org <https://www.gluu.org/blog/oauth-vs-openid-whats-the-difference/>`__)
- OpenID Connect (`developers.google.com <https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/OpenIDConnect>`__)
- `Using OpenID Connect with Google
  <https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSFS6T/com.ibm.apic.devportal.doc/tapic_portal_google_open_id.html>`__


