:date: 2019-07-14

=====================
Sunday, July 14, 2019
=====================

I reviewed Hamza's work on getlino and started to dive myself into it.


The challenge is that we have a set of configuration options to be stored in a
config file.  For each option there is a help text. We want getlino setup to
interactively ask for each of these options and then to write the site-wide
config file.  I keep the door open for a per-user config file though I don't
currently see why this might be good. Maybe on some shared server.


- Remove argh dependency and make use of click features

  The click package has a `prompt` keyword for options, but (1) how to disable
  prompting when --noinput is given? and (2) I would like to use the help texts
  when prompting. I found `this documentation page
  <https://click.palletsprojects.com/en/7.x/complex/>`__ but no real solution.

- Rremoved the projects_prefix option (I don't see why it is useful)

- config files :

  (1) support having a system-wide and a per-user file

  (2) read them all (if they exist), write only the system conf (only if there is no user conf and after asking user confirmation)

- Instead of running `sudo` for every command, we must run the whole script as root: ``sudo pip3 install
  getlino``.

- I think that uwsgi is not needed for getlino (it is needed by the env of every site)

- added more options

- split it into three commands : config, setup and startsite.


My last checkins today use a quite sophisticated approach, but it seems to work
as I want. The sophisticated approach seems necessary because we want to have
our hard-coded default config values, we want to read and write them from or to
the config file, we want to overwrite them via command-line options, and we
want to interactively ask for their value.  The tricky part was how to define
everything in a central place and avoid redundant code.

We cannot say "--noinput" as in Django because for boolean options click
requires a word for both values.  I could declare the option using
"--input/--noinput", but then the name of the variable would be "input". Okay I
could specify an alternative variable name, e.g. "input_", but that would make
it even more difficult to understand. "batch" seems clear to me.

I also started a page about getlino in the book: :ref:`getlino`.

I am still not finished : the startsite command doesn't work at all.