:date: 2019-07-17

========================
Wednesday, July 17, 2019
========================

Second day in Nõva.

Authentication issues
======================

The ``sudo docker-compose up --build`` now runs (after another minor issue: I
had to change the database port in the docker-compose.yml file from '5434:5432'
to '5434:5433' (probably because I have a pgsql running on my machine, so that
port is already taken).

Now it works, and ends by saying::

  Starting development server at http://0.0.0.0:8000/

I leave that terminal running, open another terminal and say::

    $ cd path/to/ajapaik-web
    $ sudo docker exec -it ajapaik bash

Which opens a bash shell in the container. There I say::

    # python manage.py createsuperuser

And interactively give a password and email for the web superuser.

And voilà, ajapaik is running in http://localhost:8000 with created superuser and without photos.

When I sign in (using the username and password I specified in createsuperuser), I get::

    ImproperlyConfigured at /accounts/login/
    No Facebook app configured: please add a SocialApp using the Django admin

Okay, of course I must set the :setting:`FACEBOOK_APP_KEY` and
:setting:`FACEBOOK_APP_SECRET` settings. (These are not public of course).

I could now play in the Django shell :manage:`shell`` and explore things:

>>> from django.apps import apps
>>> m = apps.get_model('auth.User')
>>> [u.username for u in m.objects.all()]
['_84ypqk56uz928yixmuwz4nkj7_DFJ', 'root', '_q0ntokocen0ojzqte7vptibvx_QCP', 'luc']

Note: the temporary users with auto-generated names are a special feature in
ajapaik: you can upload pictures and work anonymously because your activity is
tracked in such a temporary user account.

Translation issues
==================

Märt and I fixed some translation fixtures where I learned that the Django
templating language has no way to strip whitespace from inside a
`{{blocktranslate}} ... {{plural}} ... {{endblocktranslate}}` construct.


Photo management à la Lino
==========================

I started imagining two new plugins :mod:`lino_xl.lib.photos` and
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.faces`.

Or maybe we need just some optimizations to :mod:`lino_xl.lib.uploads` : a view
which shows a "preview" of each upload in a grid of tiles.  A "Tiles" view
would be either a new actor subclass, or a new display_mode for tables.

Example of a ticket with an upload :ticket:`3098`.


Reviewed getlino
================

Hamza worked on getlino, I reviewed his work and did an avalanche of changes.

I stopped with some open problems:

- ERROR 1045 (28000): Access denied for user 'root'@'localhost' (using password: NO)
- The `.pyc` files aren't group writable (i.e. the umask somehow didn't get passed)
