:date: 2019-07-22

=====================
Monday, July 22, 2019
=====================

I entered our purchase invoices into our :ref:`cosi`.  Which caused a series of
changes:

I added a detail view to :class:`lino_cosi.lib.contacts.Partners`.  While this
view is irritating in applications without accounting, for :ref:`cosi` it is
irritating to *not* have it.

The chooser for :attr:`lino_xl.lib.vat.VatDocument.vat_regime` had a typo bug
causing a :message:`TypeError: get_vat_regime_choices() takes from 0 to 2
positional arguments but 3 were given` when user tried to change the vat regime
of a voucher.

Using :kbd:`Ctrl+x` on a voucher to run
:meth:`lino_xl.lib.ledger.Voucher.toggle_state` changed the voucher state but
did not actually register the voucher (i.e. create movements, compute totals,
...).

I released version 19.7.3 of Lino and XL to PyPI. Although the test suites are
still failing.  I hope that th failures are trivial and only caused by the test
suite and not by a bug.



getlino
=======

Session with Tonis: When you maintain a Lino server, then you don't want to
decide for each new site which dbengine to use. You decide this once for all
during configure. In general, `apt-get install` is called only during
configure, never during startsite. If you have a server with some mysql sites
and exceptionally want to install a site with postgres, you simply call getlino
configure before calling startsite.

After session with Hamza:

- Optimized confirmations and messages.

- Added an Installer class to avoid passing `batch` all the time, and to have a
  single call to apt-get.

- Added ``--depth 1 -b master`` to git clong commands because history is usually
  not needed.

- Added logfile setup

- Optimized nginx config file creation. Fixed a bug : the symlink was issued from
  the src in roject dir but it must link to the copy in sites_available.

- Reviewed the  :ref:`getlino` docs page.

I tested using::

    sudo -H getlino.py startsite cosi a --dev --linodev --shared-env /usr/local/lino/shared

The ``--linodev`` option is currently required because of the appy issue we fixed with Hamza.

The ``--dev`` option is currently required in most cases because we don't yet
do pypi releases for applications

The new ``--shared-env`` option can save time during testing. Usage::

    --shared-env /usr/local/lino/shared

This option has no default value, i.e. default is to not use any shared env.

Note that when using a shared env, also static files are shared.

The ``--env-dir`` and ``--repos-dir`` options should probably always remain at
their default values ("env" and "repositories").



TODO:

- runserver in a newly created site doesn't yet serve the static files.
  Maybe because 'static' just a symlink?

- repos-dir and env-dir need to be reviewed in startsite template

- when using shared env, the static subdir of each site must also be a symlink
  to the shared

- I did not yet test pgsql setup after my changes.

- The nginx configuration file causes warnings

- mysql database setup also failed when the user or the database already
  existed. Now runs three separate commands.  If the first or second fails, the
  privileges are still done.  Disadvantage is that now it asks each time for the
  root password... not sure how to fix that.

