:date: 2019-07-23

======================
Tuesday, July 23, 2019
======================

Released version 19.7.4 of XL to PyPI. (needed for testing :ref:`getlino`).

I am working on the interface between getlino and cookiecutter:
the :xfile:`pull.sh` and :xfile:`make_snapshots.sh` scripts.

The cookiecutter.json file is actually useless and even disturbing for us:
cookicutter seems to filter extra_context, accepting only names that are
defined in the cookiecutter.json file. But okay, we can live with this.

``shared-env`` is now a server-side setting (i.e. asked during configure). But
you can also override it in startsite.  On a development machine you will
specify your default working environment here.

Added a ``--prod/no-prod``  option.  If you say ``--no-prod``, you will get a
development server.  This mode is not yet functional. For example it doesn't
automatically download all repositories.  Can wait. Note that on a development
server you can run startsite without being root because no system files need to
be modified.

:cmd:`getlino configure` now creates a :mod:`lino_local` package, and the
:xfile:`settings.py` file import ``*`` from there (in addition to the
application settings).

The :setting:`STATIC_ROOT` is set to 'env/static'. Sites with a shared env also
have shared static files.

TODO: a newly created site should run in nginx.
Add optional support for
webDAV and basic HTTP authentication.

TODO (not urgent, we can live with this): avoid mysql asking 3x for the root
password, we should probably use the python-mysql interface when creating the
db and the user: https://hub.packtpub.com/granting-access-mysql-python/

