:date: 2019-07-24

========================
Wednesday, July 24, 2019
========================

getlino
=======

I pulled Hamza's changes in :term:`getlino` and :ref:`ss` and tried whether I
can use :cmd:`getlino startsite` to run.


  $ sudo -H getlino.py configure
  $ sudo -H getlino.py startsite noi a

But http://a.localhost/ still shows the "Apache2 Ubuntu Default Page".
Although yesterday I had done::

  $ sudo apt remove apache2

I run::

  $ sudo apt autoremove
  $ sudo service nginx reload


No change.  Okay I see that I have two files in my :file:`/var/www/html`:
:file:`index.html` and :file:`index.nginx-debian.html`.

I started reading the `Beginner's Guide
<http://nginx.org/en/docs/beginners_guide.html>`__ but then decided to stop
here and to continue together with Hamza.


Backup
======

mega.nz reminded me that I haven't used them for some time. They worry whether
I have a backup copy. Yes, indeed, their client lost its configuration some
time ago when I changed a mountpoint on my notebook.

Here is what I would like to backup:

- Documents 2 GB
- .thunderbird 26 GB
- dell1tb/vbshared2/drives 22 GB
- Pictures 347 GB
- archive 186 GB
- collect : 17 GB

Only the first three are critically important. Pictures would be the next
important folder, but I feel too young to pay a monthly fee.  I will rather by
a Raspberry Pi with an external hard disk.

It took me some time to refresh my brain about how my valuable data is organized...
En passant I updated :ref:`admin.du`.
I liked this question on StackExchange:
`Display folder sizes in file manager
<https://askubuntu.com/questions/298051/display-folder-sizes-in-file-manager>`__.
And it's a pity that this feature doesn't exist on Ubuntu.


