:date: 2019-07-25

=======================
Thursday, July 25, 2019
=======================

Note that yesterday was a historic day: I saw for the first time a production
Lino running under nginx.  I believe that nginx is better for Lino than apache
because it is more lightweight and in Python. Until now we always used apache
as web server.  The :term:`getlino` project gave us motivation to do the step.

getlino
=======

I had a nightly session for :ticket:`3036` (:term:`getlino`):

- added configs for monit and logrotate
- libreoffice was being started as www-data (must be root)
- fixed at least one other bug
- optimized the user experience by avoiding useless questions
- new method Installer.override_batch()


getlino 2
=========

Morning session: get http basic auth and webdav to work.

Which variant of the ``nginx`` system package do we need? light, full, extras?

- https://askubuntu.com/questions/553937/what-is-the-difference-between-the-core-full-extras-and-light-packages-for-ngi
- http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_dav_module.html
- https://starbeamrainbowlabs.com/blog/article.php?article=posts%2F237-WebDav-Nginx-Setup.html
- https://wiki.debian.org/Nginx

The last mentioned link says it cleary : 'light', 'full' and 'extras' contain
different modules, nginx-light being the lighter and nginx-extras being the
heavier. nginx-full is in the middle, being installed with the metapackage
nginx (nginx-full is not installed if nginx-light is already installed).

As it seems we just need nginx (the meta package which actually will install
nginx-full), which has both
`AuthBasic <http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_auth_basic_module.html>`__
and
`WebDav <http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_dav_module.html>`__.

Actually in weleup they need (1) LDAP authentication and (2) webdav. The http
basic authentication is actually rather disturbing for them because it means
that they need to close their browser if they want to sign in using another
account.

I re-discovered :ref:`admin.auth` and reviewed it.


nginx and certbot (``--https``)
===============================

Hamza and I had a look at `FreedomBox
<https://wiki.debian.org/FreedomBox/Manual/DynamicDNS>`__, but it seems that
this is not maintained. `dynu.com
<https://www.dynu.com/DynamicDNS/IPUpdateClient/Linux>`__ seems more
sustainable.

getlino must *not* also provide a ``--dynamic-ip`` option (to
automatically install some dns client), so the choice of how a domain name
point to the server remains responsibility of the getlino user (the server
operator).

Hamza also discovered ngrok.io who provide both : dynamic IP and https. But
that's unfortunately not useful to use since neither Hamza nor I want to really
serve content, we just need a dynamic dns client to simulate the situation of a
real Lino server with static IP.