:date: 2019-07-31

========================
Wednesday, July 31, 2019
========================

Ivo got active, and today he will come to Vigala so I can help him with getting
started. It is a little Lino developers camp.

I released XL 19.7.6 and Lino 19.7.5 to PyPI (:ref:`lino.changes.2019`).

In the afternoon, with Ivo, we worked on the problem that getlino configure
couldn't write to the config file for monit.

Ivo did his first suggestion for fixing this: use mode "w+" instead of "w" when
opening it. But that wasn't the problem.  Actually "w" is what we want (look at
`this
<https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1466000/python-open-built-in-function-difference-between-modes-a-a-w-w-and-r/30566011#30566011>`_
diagram). We observed that monit had not been installed. But why?

We found why getlino did not install monit : because I had added the
``--asroot`` option, and we didn't specify this.  Now getlino calls
:meth:`os.geteuid` to detect whether it is running as root.  No more
``--asroot`` option needed.  Ivo knew it, and we saw it `here
<https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2806897/what-is-the-best-way-for-checking-if-the-user-of-a-script-has-root-like-privileg>`__,
but I had to verify::

  $ sudo python -c "import os; print(os.geteuid())"

Indeed: when you are user `luc` and run a command with `sudo`, then for the time
of the command you "are" actually `root`.  The process does not even know that
it has been invoked by a user `luc`.

The next problem then was that getlino didn't actually install the
`pip_packages`.  This was a bug caused by my changes some days ago.

Note that getlino is now `fixed on travis
<https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/getlino/jobs/566006223>`__, but it doesn't
yet test enough.  Okay, configure and startsite now work without error, but we
should also test whether the server restarts and whether the site responds to
requests.
