:date: 2019-08-02

======================
Friday, August 2, 2019
======================

How to find contributors?
=========================

GitHub now helps potential first-time contributors discover issues labeled with
"help wanted" or "good first issue". We must create the labels ourselves on
GitHub and then post these issues.

The problem is to find and document issues. Any idea of which ticket we could
publish there? I now created :ticket:`3144`.

But before asking for help we should invest more time into the developer's
guide.

Django migrations
=================

This morning Tonis migrated :ref:`jane` into Django migrations (with Ivo and Luc
watching).

I started a new page in the Hosters Guide : :ref:`djangomig`.

Lino no longer works with "Django <2.2" but requires "Django>2.2". Which means
that we  will probably soon drop Python 2 support altogether. It's the year 2019
after all. I think we must now dare to say to our customers that their next
release will include the passage to Python 3, which includes the passage to
Debian 10 because Debian 9 comes with a rather old Python 3.

If you now run Lino in an environment with an old Django, you get quite quickly
the following error message::

  AttributeError: type object 'MigrationWriter' has no attribute 'register_serializer'

In that case you know that you must run::

  $ pip install -U Django

TODO:

- Rename :attr:`Site.migration_module` to :attr:`Site.migration_package`?

- Set :attr:`Site.migration_package` automatically when instantiating the :setting:`SITE`?
  Must *every* site have a  migration package? What about the demo projects?

- How to migrate a pre-19.8 Lino production site ?

- Is the old system (:ref:`lino.datamig`) still possible at all?



Lino Casa
=========

Lino Casa might be an interesting new project for Ivo. The basic idea is to
write a management software for apartment associations (korteriühistud).
Besides standard accounting features it would have:

- A table of appartments where each appartment has

   - an owner (a contacts.Parter) who gets invoices
   - a size in square meters which is used for cost distribution

- Automatically generate monthly sales invoices to all owners.  Every appartment
  will probably act as invoice generator.

Ivo will now talk to managers of such associations and ask them about their
needs and expectations regarding a new application.


'AttributesImpl' object has no attribute 'has_key'
==================================================

Oh, what is causing `this failure on Travis
<https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/welfare/jobs/566508345>`__?

How can I find a list of packages in my enviroment which *would* get updated
with `pip --update`?

::

  $ pip list --outdated
