:date: 2019-08-05

======================
Monday, August 5, 2019
======================

Error loading psycopg2 module: No module named 'psycopg2'. OMG I am stupid.
Hamza actually fixed that bug but I undid it because I didn't notice at that
moment the difference between apt packages and pip packages... Yes of course:
okay we select the db-engine only once per server, but startsite still must
install the corresponding pip packages in startsite for every site.

Should we install psycopg2-binary or rather psycopg? -->  "The psycopg2-binary
package is a practical choice for development and testing but in production it
is advised to use the package built from sources."
(https://pypi.org/project/psycopg2/)

This caused an errror "You need to install postgresql-server-dev-NN for building
a server-side extension or libpq-dev for building a client-side application."
--> I added `libpq-dev <https://packages.debian.org/buster/libpq-dev>`__ to the
apt_packages of postgresql dbengine.

The :meth:`getlino.utils.Installer.runcmd` didn't fail when the subprocess
failed. Fixed.

More changes in the :xfile:`.travis.yml` file after reading `Travis docs
<https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/reference/overview/#virtualization-environments>`__.
No need to specify a python version as each Ubuntu distro has its default
version. Travis offers only Ubuntu images, no pure Debian.

Fixed a problem with the postgresql database setup (it was adding an ";" at the
wrong place).

Running ``inv prep`` in a project without demo projects
=======================================================

The :cmd:`inv prep` command in getlino didn't execute the prep.sh script because
getlino has no demo projects.  Instead of saying "inv prep test" we must say
"./prep.sh ; inv test" in the  :xfile:`.travis.yml` file.  But that's
suboptimal. :cmd:`inv prep` should "run preparation tasks that need to run
before testing (but only once for all tests)". When I run "pp inv prep test" it
should rebuild the images. I should not be forced to remember running prep.sh
manually before "pp inv prep test". So we have now two config settings for
:cmd:`inv prep`: :envvar:`prep_command` and :envvar:`demo_prep_command`.

Released Atelier 1.1.14 (:ref:`atelier.changes`) for testing it on travis for
getlino.


Telling Docker where to store images
====================================

I am getting system warnings because Docker fills up my root filesystem.

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19234831/where-are-docker-images-stored-on-the-host-machine

But how to configure the `docker daemon
<https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/dockerd/>`__ on Ubuntu?

https://docs.docker.com/storage/storagedriver/
https://docs.docker.com/storage/storagedriver/select-storage-driver/
https://forums.docker.com/t/how-to-delete-cache/5753/2

Finally I just said::

  $ docker system prune

Which answered::

  WARNING! This will remove:
    - all stopped containers
    - all networks not used by at least one container
    - all dangling images
    - all dangling build cache

  Are you sure you want to continue? [y/N] y
  Deleted Containers:
  cdd408dc0ee130d4498c82f0eed6609445b3ae290ef21c7739ef29ceca99fbd4
  493ae1128f25bc144598661eaf854de527cdc7b4795ba1a34f9e46a0aa852012
  48f9d5220778b8efd7db4bb041659b9b058f993e234e770e803e4cbeb18e4124
  ...
  Total reclaimed space: 27.53GB
