:date: 2019-08-06

=======================
Tuesday, August 6, 2019
=======================

Accounting
==========

I continued entering our accounting into :ref:`cosi`.  I am still fiddling on
EKR 7/2018, which is our first case of internal clearing (:ticket:`3106`).

How it looked in TIM::

  Accnt  Z Bezeichnung                    Debit      Credit     *
  ──────┬─┬──────────────────────────────┬──────────┬──────────┬─
  440000│E│Eesti Energia AS              │          │     79.97│*
  440000│E│Eesti Energia AS              │     79.97│          │*
  440000│E│Saffre Luc                    │          │     79.97│*
  614100│ │Elekter                       │     23.33│          │
  472200│ │Deklareerimata käibemaks saada│      4.66│          │
  440020│ │Hankijad (arveldatud töötajate│     51.98│          │*
        │ │Saldo D=                      │    159.94│    159.94│


I decided to introduce a few subtle changes compared to TIM. While TIM booked
the third movement using the suppliers general account, Lino books it into a new
account "Internal clearings".  And I map account 440020 to 600020 (i.e. we
classify it as a costs account rather than a credits account). How it looks in
Lino:

================================================= ================== ============ ============ ================ =========
 Account                                           Partner            Debit        Credit       Match            Cleared
------------------------------------------------- ------------------ ------------ ------------ ---------------- ---------
 440000 Suppliers                                  Eesti Energia AS                79.97        **EKR 7/2018**   Yes
 440000 Suppliers                                  Eesti Energia AS   79.97                     **EKR 7/2018**   Yes
 462100 Internal clearings                         Saffre Luc                      79.97        **EKR 7/2018**   No
 472200 VAT deductible                                                13.32                                      Yes
 600020 Costs paid for workers (to be paid back)                      23.33                                      Yes
 614100 Electricity                                                   43.32                                      Yes
                                                                      **159.94**   **159.94**
================================================= ================== ============ ============ ================ =========



More optimizations en passant:

.. currentmodule:: lino_xl.lib.ledger

I fixed a bug in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.ledger` : when the
:attr:`Account.common_account` was updated via the web interface, Lino did not
"realize" this until the server process was restarted. Fixed. To do this without
any hack, I added a new method
:meth:`lino.core.diff.ChangeWatcher.get_old_value`.





inv prep test ended with error 245 in project book
==================================================

This morning, before going to bed, I told my computer  to
:cmd:`pp -a welfare inv prep test`.
It worked its way through the demo projects, running
:cmd:`manage.py prep --noinput --traceback` in each of them.
And then, out of
nowhere, in :mod:`lino_book.projects.lydia`, (the 30th of the 46 demo projects),
that command fails.  It says::

  CommandError: inv prep test ended with error 245 in project book

When I manually run the command that failed, it does not fail again.

What does exit code 245 mean? Does it have a special meaning?  "When a command
terminates on a fatal signal whose number is N, Bash uses the value 128+N as the
exit status." (`gnu.org
<https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Exit-Status.html>`__)
See also `tldp.org
<http://tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/exitcodes.html>`__


245 - 128 = 117 and my question becomes "What means signal 117?".
I scanned the `man page <http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/signal.7.html>`__

Other people had this exit code. For examples
`here <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10054073/failed-with-exit-code-245-xcode>`__
and `here <https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest/issues/1838>`__.`

But `256 - 11 = 245`. So the number might just mean that signal -11
(Segmentation fault) was received. This can simply be caused by Low memory or
Faulty Ram memory (`link
<https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10035541/what-causes-a-python-segmentation-fault>`__)

I cleaned up some places that caused warnings about unclosed resources.

getlino doesn't start the database server
=========================================

I noticed that :cmd:`getlino configure` did not start the database server.
Probably fixed. The ``DB_ENGINES`` list has a new new column :attr:`service`.
There was maybe also a bug in :meth:`getlino.utils.Installer.setup_database`,
the :meth:`runcmd <getlino.utils.Installer.runcmd>` was called with  :cmd:`sudo
-u postgres -c bash "{cmd}"` but (imho) :cmd:`sudo -u postgres {cmd}` is enough.

En passant I saw that on Ubuntu Bionic our getlino would fail::

  Package libmysqlclient-dev is not available, but is referred to by another package.
  This may mean that the package is missing, has been obsoleted, or
  is only available from another source
  However the following packages replace it:
    libmariadb-dev-compat libmariadb-dev

  E: Package 'libmysqlclient-dev' has no installation candidate
  E: Package 'mysql-server' has no installation candidate


Changing number of calendar entries in welfare demo project?
============================================================

I "fixed" the following failure in :ref:`welfare` by adapting the expected
output.  Though I am quite sure that a few days ago I did exactly the opposite.
I have no explanation yet.

::

  File "docs/specs/weleup/eupen.rst", line 1033, in eupen.rst
  Failed example:
      walk_menu_items('rolf', severe=False)
      #doctest: +ELLIPSIS +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE +REPORT_UDIFF
  Differences (unified diff with -expected +actual):
      @@ -12,5 +12,5 @@
       - Büro --> Meine Datenkontrollliste : 0
       - Kalender --> Meine Termine : 6
      -- Kalender --> Überfällige Termine : 81
      +- Kalender --> Überfällige Termine : 37
       - Kalender --> Meine unbestätigten Termine : 3
       - Kalender --> Meine Aufgaben : 1
      @@ -70,5 +70,5 @@
       - Konfigurierung --> Büro --> Ereignisarten : 11
       - Konfigurierung --> Büro --> Meine Einfügetexte : 1
      -- Konfigurierung --> Kalender --> Kalenderliste : ...
      +- Konfigurierung --> Kalender --> Kalenderliste : 12
       - Konfigurierung --> Kalender --> Räume : 1
       - Konfigurierung --> Kalender --> Regelmäßige Ereignisse : 16
      @@ -140,5 +140,5 @@
       - Explorer --> Büro --> Ereignisse/Notizen : 112
       - Explorer --> Büro --> Einfügetexte : 3
      -- Explorer --> Kalender --> Kalendereinträge : 358
      +- Explorer --> Kalender --> Kalendereinträge : 311
       - Explorer --> Kalender --> Aufgaben : 37
       - Explorer --> Kalender --> Anwesenheiten : 620
  **********************************************************************
  1 items had failures:
     1 of  26 in eupen.rst
  ***Test Failed*** 1 failures.



Accounting
==========

:class:`lino_xl.lib.vat.InvoicesByJournal` did not display the right sorting
order. It was using ['-id'] instead of the order defined in
:class:`lino_xl.lib.ledger.ByJournal`.


'Duration' object has no attribute '_text'
==========================================


.. currentmodule:: lino.utils.quantities

Tonis added a `deconstructible` decorator to the custom values in
:mod:`lino.utils.quantities`, but this caused most tests to break with above
error message.

After reading the `Django docs
<https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.1/topics/migrations/#adding-a-deconstruct-method>`__
I guess that ``@deconstructible`` doesn't work as expected because these classes
have a :meth:`__new__` method (no :meth:`__init__` method).  I guess that we
must simply write our own deconstruct method.

I reviewed the code and probably fixed the issue, added some cases to
:ref:`book.dev.quantities`.

Running apt-get upgrade on travis
=================================

I added ``sudo apt-get update -y`` (and ``upgrade``) to the :xfile:`.travis.yml`
files of book and welfare because `a failure
<https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/welfare/jobs/568500457>`__  suggested it.
