:date: 2019-09-03

==========================
Tuesday, September 3, 2019
==========================

Miscellaneous
=============

I continued to work in the :ref:`cg` and in the :ref:`book` as a preparation for
the year 2020.

I  `read this <https://sonetel.com/en/how-to-get-a-free-phone-number/>`_ started
to try to use a Belgian phone number. Our new number in Belgium will be +32
43460150 (but it is still experimental and might change). The biggest problem
will be to find a legal person in Belgium who is willing to act as
representative.


Running Lino on Debian 10 (buster)
==================================

I continued with Hamza on :ticket:`3095`. We can already conclude that
:ref:`getlino` has finished its work and has done a good job.  Okay it doesn't
yet create a bash_aliases file.  But anyway that's maybe just a personal
preference for me.

It took us some time to get my browser to open the new website through the SSH
tunnel. TIL : When I changed something in the :xfile:`settings.py` file, I must
now restart supervisor instead of restarting the web browser.


Tidy 5.2 cleaned up curly quotes but 5.6 doesn't
================================================

We still have the following error message during :cmd:`pm prep`::

  Exception: Errors while processing <p class=“Default“>Herrn Albert ADAM</p>

I opened :ticket:`3188` for this.

This is obviously a bug in the :xfile:`contacts/Person/TermsConditions.odt`
template (in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.contacts`).  That file contains the following
appy statement::

  do text
  from html(u'<p class=“Default“>'+this.owner.get_address('<br>')+u'</p>')

The string passed to
:meth:`lino_xl.lib.appy.AppyRenderer.insert_html`
accidentally contains curly
quotes instead of straight quotes.

The actual work happens in :mod:`lino.utils.html2xtml` which says::

    from tidylib import tidy_fragment

    def html2xhtml(html, **options):
        options.update(doctype='omit')
        options.update(show_warnings=0)
        options.update(indent=0)
        # options.update(output_xml=1)
        options.update(output_xhtml=1)
        document, errors = tidy_fragment(html, options=options)

I might open the document in libreoffice, replace the curly quotes by straight
ones, make a release of xl and update their environment.

But my problem is that we didn't have this problem before. The :fixture:`demo2`
fixture of :mod:`lino_xl.lib.excerpts` successfully creates the file
:file:`media/cache/appypdf/excerpts.Excerpt-2.pdf` which comes from above
template.

It seems that tiny successfully parses those curly quotes on my machine (and on
travis, and on other machines) and that it doesn't like them any more on the new
server.  Yes, this is our first usage of Debian 10. We checked whether tidy has
some option to control this behaviour
http://tidy.sourceforge.net/docs/quickref.html

On Debian 9 we have HTML Tidy version **5.2.0**, while on Debian 10 it is
**5.6.0**. This seems the relevant difference.

Edit 20190904: I asked the `HTACG <http://www.html-tidy.org/>`__ for advice:
https://github.com/htacg/tidy-html5/issues/841


Configuring LDAP authentication
===============================

LDAP authentication is now done using nginx and django-auth-ldap instead of
apache and mod_wsgi. So it is no longer done by the browser using plain http
auth.  Plain http auth is obsolete and has the disadvantage that you cannot sign
out without leaving the browser and cannot remain signed in when leaving the
browser.

But surprise: LDAP is more complex than Hamza and I thought. We tried to migrate
the LDAP options from the Apache configuration to the :xfile:`settings.py` file,
as demonstrated in the :mod:`lino_book.projects.team.settings.demo`. But we
decided to give up and ask somebody who knows how to configure LDAP server.
Nicolas, Steve or Gerd.

Here are the docs for django-auth-ldap:
- https://django-auth-ldap.readthedocs.io/en/latest/authentication.html
- https://django-auth-ldap.readthedocs.io/en/latest/example.html
