:date: 2019-09-08

=========================
Sunday, September 8, 2019
=========================

How to install :ref:`getlino` on the new server for :ref:`lf`? We definitively
don't want to install a new environment for every site, so it is not a
real :term:`production server`.  It is a :term:`demo server`.

A :term:`demo server` has a list of "demo projects" that it serves in a set of
"versions".  For example::

  projects = 'a', 'b', 'c'
  versions = 'master', 'stable'

There will be six sites on that server::

  a.master.example.com
  a.stable.example.com
  b.master.example.com
  ...

.. program:: getlino configure

I guess that this will need yet another little change in getlino: At the moment
we have a single :option:`--local-prefix` and a single :option:`--shared-env`.
But we need a mapping:

    ========= ============ ============================
    subdomain local_prefix shared virtual_env
    ========= ============ ============================
    master    master_sites /usr/local/lino/envs/master
    stable    stable_sites /usr/local/lino/envs/stable
    ========= ============ ============================

Maybe that local_prefix is not needed.

Does it make sense to use a demo server also for serving documentation? Each
"version" or "subdomain" on the server might also feature a build of a set of
doctrees.  But let's rather try to delegate documentation to readthedocs.org,
after all it is their speciality.


Code changes:

New option --shared-env for startsite.  When used with startsite, it overrides
the value specified during configure.

Renamed the --contrib option  to --clone because it is also used when
configuring a demo server. It means "clone all known repositories to the
--repos-base and install them to the shared env using :cmd:`pip -e`."

The configure command now supports --clone without specifying a --repos-base.
In that case it uses the `repositories` subdir of the shared-env.
