:date: 2019-09-11

=============================
Wednesday, September 11, 2019
=============================

I fixed :ticket:`3192`.

I first subtle problem was how to report a configuration error.  What to do when
there is no :term:`database object` defined for a given :term:`common account`?
Lino said "Exception: Not an account: None" when you tried to register an
invoice and the account for :term:`returnable VAT` was not configured. Now it
says "Exception: Not an account: No account pointing to VAT returnable". The
:meth:`lino_xl.lib.ledger.CommonAccounts.get_object` method now returns a
:class:`MissingAccount` object when there is no ledger account for this common
account.   TODO: write a test case to reproduce the situation.

Another problem was that Lino  added :term:`returnable VAT` in the total fields
of the invoice. (The generated movements were already correct before.)

I changed the label of :attr:`lino_xl.lib.vat.VatTotal.total_incl` from "Total
incl. VAT" to "Total to pay".  Because when :term:`returnable VAT` is being
applied, "incl VAT" would be disturbing because there actually *is* VAT, but
that VAT is not to be paid.

En passant I fixed another bug in the VAT setup (both in
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.bevat` and :mod:`lino_xl.lib.eevat`): :term:`returnable VAT`
was also configured for sales, but that was wrong : in a sales invoice to an
intracom partner you don't specify any VAT at all. In a sales invoice to an
intracom partner, there is simply no VAT to be generated. IOW even for services
and good for which national customers must pay VAT (because their VAT class is
normal or reduced but not exempt), the VAT rule specifies a rate of 0.

I also fixed :ticket:`2847` : added the :attr:`your_ref` field to the
description of a :term:`ledger movement`.
TODO: this virtual description field of a :term:`ledger movement` is not yet
perfect. For example in MovementsByPartner it should not show the partner.
