
:date: 2019-09-13

==========================
Friday, September 13, 2019
==========================

Using getlino to install the next Avanti Lino
=============================================

I continued to install :ref:`avanti` on their new server.

For this I had to release XL (Exception: lino_xl.lib.cv has no attribute
with_language_history).

Some problems in getlino
========================

I noticed that :cmd:`getlino startsite` failed to create the :xfile:`pull.sh` script.

I opened :ticket:`3199` because I observed some issues with :cmd:`getlino
startsite`:

- :cmd:`getlino startsite` did not create the
  :xfile:`pull.sh` and :xfile:`make_snapshot.sh` scripts.
  Several commits to :ref:`ss`.

- What to do when :cmd:`getlino startsite` successfully creates the database user
  and then fails for some reason? I can simply overwrite the existing site by
  running :cmd:`getlino startsite` again, but mysql or pgsql will fail to create
  the new user of same name.

  The easiest workaround is to manually delete both the user and the database
  before running  :cmd:`getlino startsite` a second time.
  I reviewed the :ref:`mysql.cheat_sheet`.


Installing certbot
==================

Oops, when using :option:`getlino configure --https`, it installs certbot, but I
get an error message::

  Installation succeeded.
  Saving debug log to /var/log/letsencrypt/letsencrypt.log
  Missing command line flags. For non-interactive execution, you will need to specify a plugin on the command line.  Run with '--help plugins' to see a list of options, and see https://eff.org/letsencrypt-plugins for more detail on what the plugins do and how to use them.
  Error: certbot-auto -n ended with return code 1

Indeed, when I manually run ``certbot-auto -n`` I get the same error message.



Miscellaneous
=============

The `timtools` project is not yet converted to Python 3. I don't plan do convert
it now because that might cause some work, and until now there is no reason to
do it. But the :xfile:`setup.py` in that project  caused problems when building
my blog under Python 3.


Cannot use VAT regime {} for partner without VAT id
===================================================

:ticket:`3183`. : When entering the :attr:`vat_regime
<lino_xl.lib.contacts.Partner.vat_regime>` of a provider or customer with empty
:attr:`vat_id <lino_xl.lib.contacts.Partner.vat_id>`, Lino did not show regimes
having :attr:`needs_vat_id <lino_xl.lib.vat.VatRegime.needs_vat_id>` set. This
was irritating because users who didn't know about this subtle rule had no
chance to understand why. Lino now shows these regimes also when there is no VAT
id, but complains :message:`Cannot use VAT regime X for partner without VAT id`
when you try to save a document for that regime and that partner.

I pushed these changes without waiting the results of my local test run.
