:date: 2019-09-18

=============================
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
=============================

Moving from doll to tups
========================

In summary I can say that my yesterday's adventure seemed threatening in the
beginning, but after all I haven't lost any data at all, and I am glad to be on
my new laptop now. So actually it was blessing in disguise. TODO: Optimize my
emergency plan.

I used :term:`getlino` for setting up my new machine and I opened :ticket:`3204`
(Optimizations in getlino).

I had a message :message:`favicon file 'favicon.ico' does not exist` during
:cmd:`inv bd` in book.  I fixed it by removing the following line from
:xfile:`conf.py` ::

  #html_favicon = 'favicon.ico'

But it's strange that I am the first one. :cmd:`inv bd` works on :ref:`travis`.

Setting up new server for weleup
================================

Back to work on :ticket:`3095` (continued after :doc:`0916`).

Released Welfare 19.9.0 and weleup 19.9.0.

Manually did lots of little trivial steps::

  $ sudo a2enmod authnz_ldap
  $ sudo a2enmod dav_fs
  $ sudo a2enmod dav
  $ sudo apt install libapache2-mod-wsgi-py3

I stopped here::

  [Wed Sep 18 15:37:21.750588 2019] [wsgi:error] [pid 3357:tid 140319710512896]
  Exception: Version mismatch: this is the 'cffi'
  package version 1.12.3, located in
  '/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/cffi/api.py'.
  When we import the top-level '_cffi_backend' extension module, we get version
  1.12.2, located in
  '/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/_cffi_backend.cpython-37m-x86_64-linux-gnu.so'.
  The two versions should be equal; check your installation.


Lino Amici
==========

I did some daily work (or should I say manual tests on the field) for
:ref:`amici` (:ticket:`1843`).  A pull on the production site in order to get
the new calendar view.

Fixed a bug in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.phones` which caused :manage:`checkdata` to
fail when a same partner had multiple contact detail entries marked as primary
(MultipleObjectsReturned). Now it creates a message "Multiple primary items for
<type>".

I also moved "odfpy" from lino_xl's install_requires to
:meth:`lino_xl.lib.appypod.Plugin.get_requirements`.

Miscellaneous issues after moving from doll to tups
===================================================

"Could not lex literal_block as "guess". Highlighting skipped" in :cmd:`inv bd`
in my blog.
