:date: 2019-09-22

==========================
Sunday, September 22, 2019
==========================

Changes for Avanti
==================

Last Monday I had a meeting with Johanna resulting in a list of customer
requests for :ref:`avanti` (:ticket:`2274`). Yesterday and today I finally found
time to work on it.

DONE

- Fehler bei Doppelklick auf einer Frage in einer Umfrage (AnswersByResponseRow,
  sh. Server-Log)

- Sozialbilanz (:xfile:`final_report.body.html`)

- Klientenkontakte : Namen der Mitarbeiter im ADG und ÖSHZ drucken. Die anderen
  Kontakte (z.B. Patenschaftsprojekt) nicht drucken.

- Sprachkenntnisse : Tabelle raus. In Zusammenfassung auch Zertifikat anzeigen.

- CEF-Kategorie : nur das Kürzel, nicht die ganze Beschreibung. Auch am Bildschirm.

- Kompetenzen und Ausbildungen : lediglich die Tabelle.

- Studien : 2 neue Felder  "in Belgien anerkannt" und "Akad. Grad in Belgien"

- "Einschreibungen in Kursen" : raus aus dem Bericht

- "Work area" übersetzen "Bereich". Texte drumherum raus.

- Feld Berufliche Situation vor die Tabelle.

- Arbeitserlaubnis benötigt : steht am Bildschirm, wird aber nicht gedruckt.

- "Professionelles Ziel" und "Verfügbarkeit" : weg (die stehen im Abschlussgespräch)


TODO:

- Tabelle Berufserfahrungen : Funktion, Status, Beendigungsgrund raus

- Abschlussgespräch : als Aufzählung, nicht als Tabelle. Fragen ohne Antwort gar nicht erst ausdrucken.



manage.py prep fails in migs demo project (but leaves to migrations tree)
=========================================================================

I worked a few hours on :ticket:`3219`.

The :attr:`migrations_package <lino.core.site.Site.migrations_package>` site
attribute no longer needs to be set explicitly in a :xfile:`settings.py` file
because Lino now sets it automatically when your project directory has a
subdirectory named :xfile:`migrations`.  As a result we can now easily enable
Django migrations for a site by creating an empty :xfile:`migrations` directory.
Or we can disable them by removing this directory and its subdirectories. The
only use case so far is the :ref:`book.specs.migrate` doctest where we show some
operations with shell commands in the :mod:`lino_book.projects.migs` project.


The :mod:`lino_book.projects.migs` demo project is not defined as a demo project
in  :xfile:`tasks.py` because :manage:`prep` is being run even twice in the
:ref:`book.specs.migrate` doctest. I also removed it from the
:file:`test_demo.py` because it currently has no Django tests.  I also removed
the tests subdir because it was empty.


The :manage:`initdb` now always also runs :manage:`makemigrations`. On a
classical Lino site without a migrations package this just issues a message
:message`No changes detected`.
