:date: 2019-09-26

============================
Thursday, September 26, 2019
============================

Make :meth:`ar.confirm <lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.confirm>` blocking
=========================================================================

:ticket:`3228` is maybe urgent if the new :ref:`avanti` production server turns
out to be too slow when 20 users are working on it.

After a few hours of sleep I think we can do it.

The key point is to accept that we cannot store a running function in another
process.  But we can simply make :meth:`ar.confirm <lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.confirm>` blocking.  Which will lead
to more readable application code because instead of writing action logic in a
"twisted" way, we write it as it is meant.

Writing it the twisted way::

    def run_from_ui(self, ar, **kw):
        ... prepare the confirmation
        def ok(ar2):
            ... do it
        ar.confirm(ok, _("Are you sure ?"))

Writing it as is is meant::

    def run_from_ui(self, ar, **kw):
        ... prepare the confirmation
        if ar.confirm(_("Are you sure ?")):
            ... do it

We don't need to change the syntax. The API of :meth:`ar.confirm
<lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.confirm>` should remain the same except that it
will now return True or False, and that the `ok_func` argument would become
optional.

How to do this?  I started a new module :mod:`lino.core.callbacks`

New server for weleup
=====================

Back to work on :ticket:`3095` (move weleup to new server). Here is the last
traceback in Apache's error.log::

  Traceback (most recent call last):
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/wsgi.py", line 11, in <module>
      application = get_wsgi_application()
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/core/wsgi.py", line 12, in get_wsgi_application
      django.setup(set_prefix=False)
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/__init__.py", line 24, in setup
      apps.populate(settings.INSTALLED_APPS)
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/apps/registry.py", line 114, in populate
      app_config.import_models()
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/django/apps/config.py", line 211, in import_models
      self.models_module = import_module(models_module_name)
    File "/usr/lib/python3.7/importlib/__init__.py", line 127, in import_module
      return _bootstrap._gcd_import(name[level:], package, level)
    File "<frozen importlib._bootstrap>", line 1006, in _gcd_import
    File "<frozen importlib._bootstrap>", line 983, in _find_and_load
    File "<frozen importlib._bootstrap>", line 967, in _find_and_load_unlocked
    File "<frozen importlib._bootstrap>", line 677, in _load_unlocked
    File "<frozen importlib._bootstrap_external>", line 728, in exec_module
    File "<frozen importlib._bootstrap>", line 219, in _call_with_frames_removed
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/lino/modlib/weasyprint/models.py", line 5, in <module>
      from .choicelists import *
    File "/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/uno.py", line 350, in _uno_import
      return _builtin_import(name, *optargs, **kwargs)
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/lino/modlib/weasyprint/choicelists.py", line 17, in <module>
      from weasyprint import HTML
    File "/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/uno.py", line 350, in _uno_import
      return _builtin_import(name, *optargs, **kwargs)
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/weasyprint/__init__.py", line 443, in <module>
      from .document import Document, Page  # noqa isort:skip
    File "/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/uno.py", line 350, in _uno_import
      return _builtin_import(name, *optargs, **kwargs)
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/weasyprint/document.py", line 23, in <module>
      from .draw import draw_page, stacked
    File "/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/uno.py", line 350, in _uno_import
      return _builtin_import(name, *optargs, **kwargs)
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/weasyprint/draw.py", line 19, in <module>
      from .images import SVGImage
    File "/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/uno.py", line 350, in _uno_import
      return _builtin_import(name, *optargs, **kwargs)
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/weasyprint/images.py", line 17, in <module>
      import cairosvg.parser
    File "/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/uno.py", line 350, in _uno_import
      return _builtin_import(name, *optargs, **kwargs)
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/cairosvg/__init__.py", line 42, in <module>
      from . import surface  # noqa isort:skip
    File "/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/uno.py", line 350, in _uno_import
      return _builtin_import(name, *optargs, **kwargs)
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/cairosvg/surface.py", line 28, in <module>
      from .defs import (
    File "/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/uno.py", line 350, in _uno_import
      return _builtin_import(name, *optargs, **kwargs)
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/cairosvg/defs.py", line 24, in <module>
      from .bounding_box import calculate_bounding_box, is_non_empty_bounding_box
    File "/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/uno.py", line 350, in _uno_import
      return _builtin_import(name, *optargs, **kwargs)
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/cairosvg/bounding_box.py", line 28, in <module>
      from .parser import Tree
    File "/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/uno.py", line 350, in _uno_import
      return _builtin_import(name, *optargs, **kwargs)
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/cairosvg/parser.py", line 28, in <module>
      from defusedxml import ElementTree
    File "/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/uno.py", line 350, in _uno_import
      return _builtin_import(name, *optargs, **kwargs)
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/defusedxml/ElementTree.py", line 63, in <module>
      _XMLParser, _iterparse, ParseError = _get_py3_cls()
    File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/lib/python3.7/site-packages/defusedxml/ElementTree.py", line 48, in _get_py3_cls
      pure_pymod = importlib.import_module(pymodname)
    File "/usr/lib/python3.7/importlib/__init__.py", line 127, in import_module
      return _bootstrap._gcd_import(name[level:], package, level)
    File "/usr/lib/python3.7/xml/etree/ElementTree.py", line 1660, in <module>
      from _elementtree import *
    File "/usr/lib/python3/dist-packages/uno.py", line 373, in _uno_import
      d = mod.__dict__
  AttributeError: 'NoneType' object has no attribute '__dict__'


I guess that it is a side effect of having getlino installed system-wide.  So as
a first step I remove it there::

  $ sudo su
  # pip3 freeze | xargs pip3 uninstall -y

  Uninstalling alabaster-0.7.12:
    Successfully uninstalled alabaster-0.7.12
  Uninstalling argh-0.26.2:
    Successfully uninstalled argh-0.26.2
  Uninstalling arrow-0.14.6:
    Successfully uninstalled arrow-0.14.6
  Not uninstalling asn1crypto at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'asn1crypto'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Uninstalling atelier-1.1.15:
    Successfully uninstalled atelier-1.1.15
  Uninstalling atomicwrites-1.3.0:
    Successfully uninstalled atomicwrites-1.3.0
  Uninstalling attrs-19.1.0:
    Successfully uninstalled attrs-19.1.0
  Uninstalling Babel-2.7.0:
    Successfully uninstalled Babel-2.7.0
  Uninstalling binaryornot-0.4.4:
    Successfully uninstalled binaryornot-0.4.4
  Not uninstalling certifi at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'certifi'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Not uninstalling cffi at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'cffi'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Not uninstalling chardet at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'chardet'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Uninstalling Click-7.0:
    Successfully uninstalled Click-7.0
  Uninstalling cookiecutter-1.6.0:
    Successfully uninstalled cookiecutter-1.6.0
  Uninstalling coverage-4.5.4:
    Successfully uninstalled coverage-4.5.4
  Not uninstalling cryptography at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'cryptography'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Uninstalling docutils-0.15.2:
    Successfully uninstalled docutils-0.15.2
  Not uninstalling entrypoints at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'entrypoints'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Uninstalling future-0.17.1:
    Successfully uninstalled future-0.17.1
  Uninstalling getlino-19.9.0:
    Successfully uninstalled getlino-19.9.0
  Uninstalling gitdb2-2.0.5:
    Successfully uninstalled gitdb2-2.0.5
  Uninstalling GitPython-3.0.2:
    Successfully uninstalled GitPython-3.0.2
  Not uninstalling httplib2 at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'httplib2'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Not uninstalling idna at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'idna'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Uninstalling imagesize-1.1.0:
    Successfully uninstalled imagesize-1.1.0
  Uninstalling importlib-metadata-0.19:
    Successfully uninstalled importlib-metadata-0.19
  Uninstalling invoke-1.3.0:
    Successfully uninstalled invoke-1.3.0
  Uninstalling Jinja2-2.10.1:
    Successfully uninstalled Jinja2-2.10.1
  Uninstalling jinja2-time-0.2.0:
    Successfully uninstalled jinja2-time-0.2.0
  Not uninstalling keyring at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'keyring'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Not uninstalling keyrings.alt at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'keyrings.alt'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Uninstalling MarkupSafe-1.1.1:
    Successfully uninstalled MarkupSafe-1.1.1
  Uninstalling more-itertools-7.2.0:
    Successfully uninstalled more-itertools-7.2.0
  Uninstalling packaging-19.1:
    Successfully uninstalled packaging-19.1
  Uninstalling pluggy-0.12.0:
    Successfully uninstalled pluggy-0.12.0
  Not uninstalling ply at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'ply'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Uninstalling poyo-0.5.0:
    Successfully uninstalled poyo-0.5.0
  Uninstalling py-1.8.0:
    Successfully uninstalled py-1.8.0
  Not uninstalling pycparser at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'pycparser'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Not uninstalling pycrypto at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'pycrypto'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Not uninstalling pycurl at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'pycurl'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Uninstalling Pygments-2.4.2:
    Successfully uninstalled Pygments-2.4.2
  Not uninstalling pygobject at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'PyGObject'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Uninstalling pyparsing-2.4.2:
    Successfully uninstalled pyparsing-2.4.2
  Not uninstalling pysimplesoap at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'PySimpleSOAP'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Uninstalling pytest-5.1.1:
    Successfully uninstalled pytest-5.1.1
  Uninstalling pytest-cov-2.7.1:
    Successfully uninstalled pytest-cov-2.7.1
  Not uninstalling python-apt at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'python-apt'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Uninstalling python-dateutil-2.8.0:
    Successfully uninstalled python-dateutil-2.8.0
  Not uninstalling python-debian at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'python-debian'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Not uninstalling python-debianbts at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'python-debianbts'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Uninstalling pytz-2019.2:
    Successfully uninstalled pytz-2019.2
  Not uninstalling pyxdg at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'pyxdg'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Not uninstalling reportbug at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'reportbug'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Not uninstalling requests at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'requests'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Not uninstalling secretstorage at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'SecretStorage'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Not uninstalling six at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'six'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Uninstalling smmap2-2.0.5:
    Successfully uninstalled smmap2-2.0.5
  Uninstalling snowballstemmer-1.9.0:
    Successfully uninstalled snowballstemmer-1.9.0
  Uninstalling Sphinx-2.2.0:
    Successfully uninstalled Sphinx-2.2.0
  Uninstalling sphinxcontrib-applehelp-1.0.1:
    Successfully uninstalled sphinxcontrib-applehelp-1.0.1
  Uninstalling sphinxcontrib-devhelp-1.0.1:
    Successfully uninstalled sphinxcontrib-devhelp-1.0.1
  Uninstalling sphinxcontrib-htmlhelp-1.0.2:
    Successfully uninstalled sphinxcontrib-htmlhelp-1.0.2
  Uninstalling sphinxcontrib-jsmath-1.0.1:
    Successfully uninstalled sphinxcontrib-jsmath-1.0.1
  Uninstalling sphinxcontrib-qthelp-1.0.2:
    Successfully uninstalled sphinxcontrib-qthelp-1.0.2
  Uninstalling sphinxcontrib-serializinghtml-1.1.3:
    Successfully uninstalled sphinxcontrib-serializinghtml-1.1.3
  Uninstalling Unipath-1.1:
    Successfully uninstalled Unipath-1.1
  Not uninstalling urllib3 at /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages, outside environment /usr
  Can't uninstall 'urllib3'. No files were found to uninstall.
  Uninstalling virtualenv-16.7.4:
    Successfully uninstalled virtualenv-16.7.4
  Uninstalling wcwidth-0.1.7:
    Successfully uninstalled wcwidth-0.1.7
  Uninstalling whichcraft-0.6.0:
    Successfully uninstalled whichcraft-0.6.0
  Uninstalling zipp-0.6.0:
    Successfully uninstalled zipp-0.6.0

It seems that I was lucky because pip refused to uninstall packages that  are
"outside environment /usr"::

  # pip3 freeze
  asn1crypto==0.24.0
  certifi==2018.8.24
  cffi==1.12.2
  chardet==3.0.4
  cryptography==2.6.1
  entrypoints==0.3
  httplib2==0.11.3
  idna==2.6
  keyring==17.1.1
  keyrings.alt==3.1.1
  ply==3.11
  pycparser==2.19
  pycrypto==2.6.1
  pycurl==7.43.0.2
  PyGObject==3.30.4
  PySimpleSOAP==1.16.2
  python-apt==1.8.4
  python-debian==0.1.35
  python-debianbts==2.8.2
  pyxdg==0.25
  reportbug==7.5.2
  requests==2.21.0
  SecretStorage==2.3.1
  six==1.12.0
  urllib3==1.24.1


I did::

  $ go prod
  $ sudo apt install virtualenv
  $ mv env env.old
  $ virtualenv -p python3 env
  $ a
  $ pip install lino-weleup mysqlclient
  $ python manage.py install
  $ python manage.py collectstatic

This will install some more packages::

  pip install --upgrade --trusted-host svn.forge.pallavi.be -e svn+https://svn.forge.pallavi.be/appy-dev/dev1#egg=appy bleach odfpy schedule suds-py3

But still no change.

I tried this::

  $ sudo aptitude reinstall libreoffice libreoffice-script-provider-python uno-libs3 python3-uno python3

Still no change.

Indeed I have no uno installed in that virtualenv (``python -c "import uno"``
fails).  The uno package is available only in the system wide python3. So let's
try again with virtualenv's ``--system-site-packages`` option::

  $ rm -rf env
  $ virtualenv -p python3 --system-site-packages env
  $ a
  $ pip install lino-weleup mysqlclient
  $ python manage.py install

Now ``python -c "import uno"`` works in the env, but otherwise still no change.

I tried to reinstall the system-wide python::

  $ sudo apt --reinstall install python3 python3-uno

Still no change.

BTW we don't need Apache to get the error. We can simply say::

    $ python manage.py shell

Hamza had the idea to try this::

  $ sudo apt remove python3-uno

Interesting! When python3-uno is not installed, the error disappears and the
site is visible. But when we try to print something using the appypod method, we
get::

  PodError: An error occurred during the conversion. Traceback (most recent call last):
   File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/src/appy/appy/pod/converter.py", line 845, in ConverterScript().run()
   File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/src/appy/appy/pod/converter.py", line 833, in runoptions.pageStart, options.verbose)
   File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/src/appy/appy/pod/converter.py", line 268, in __init__ self.docUrl, self.docPath = self.getFilePath(docPath)
   File "/usr/local/lino/lino_local/prod/env/src/appy/appy/pod/converter.py", line 361, in getFilePath
    import unohelper
    ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'unohelper'

Summary so far: something seems broken which causes python3-uno to not work
correctly when installed.  I tried to reinstall everything I can think of
(copied from getlino configure).  No change.


When pip is unbelievably slow
=============================

Today I had a situation on our new demo server that pip was unbelievably slow.
A pip freeze was running endlessly until I hit the Ctrl-C key::

  $ pip freeze
  ^C^C^CERROR: Operation cancelled by user
  ^C^C^CException ignored in: <module 'threading' from '/usr/lib/python3.7/threading.py'>
  Traceback (most recent call last):
    File "/usr/lib/python3.7/threading.py", line 1263, in _shutdown
      def _shutdown():
  KeyboardInterrupt
  ^C^CError in atexit._run_exitfuncs:
  Traceback (most recent call last):
    File "/usr/lib/python3.7/logging/__init__.py", line 2047, in shutdown
  ^C^C^C^C^C
  ^C
  During handling of the above exception, another exception occurred:

  Traceback (most recent call last):
    File "/usr/lib/python3.7/logging/__init__.py", line 2047, in shutdown
  ^C^CKeyboardInterrupt

I don't know why this was, but it disappeared after a reboot.


Updating the demo server
========================

I added a :cmd:`go` alias to the :file:`/etc/bash.bashrc` file.  So you can now
say "go cosi3" or "go team".

I now activate the master env in my :xfile:`.bash_aliases` file::

  . /usr/local/lino/sharedenvs/master/bin/activate

I wrote a custom :xfile:`pull.sh` script in the bin directory of the master
environment.

I saw with my own eyes the situation where the "Your browser is using a previous
version of the site, press OK to reload the site" doesn't go away by itself
(after clicking OK).  Maybe an issue with caching, caused e.g. by nginx
configuration.


Summary view for RecentComments
===============================

Oops, :ticket:`3212` (Summary view for RecentComments) wasn't a quick win. It
caused a series of changes and optimizations:

- :class:`lino.modlib.comments.RecentComments` now has a summary view that looks
  much better in the dashboard.  And it no longer stops displaying comments
  modified in the future. This is useful when you modify a comment in a demo
  database.

- Fixed a bug in :class:`lino.modlib.memo.Previewable` which caused it to not
  use the :attr:`default_ui <lino.core.site.Site.default_ui>` when
  :attr:`lino.modlib.memo.Plugin.front_end` is `None`.

- When a :class:`BaseRequest <lino.core.requests.BaseRequest>` is spawned from a
  parent, it now inherits the :attr:`request
  <lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.request>` attribute (i.e. the incoming Django
  HTTP request that caused the action request). This is needed so that
  subrequests can decide whether to generate links using "javascript:" or not.
  When displaying links in a comment on the exts dashboard, we prefer them to
  remain under the same url.

- The :fixture:`demo2` fixture for :mod:`lino.modlib.comments` generates a series
  of lorem ipsum comments.  But until now they all had the real timestamp when the
  :cmd:`pm prep` command was run.  Now they have a fictive demo date and time.

TODO:  The summary tables for CommentsByRFC and those for RecentComments are
similar but different. It seems that when rendering a table summary in the
dashboard, Lino requires that summary to be returned as an etree element.  When
rendering it in a slave table panel of a detail, this was possible.  And for
comments we used it to avoid rendering them again and again.  Also we can
probably use lxml to truncate the first paragraph, no need for BeautifulSoup.
The idea of Previewable was to have the comments already rendered as HTML and to
not parse them again and again. Currently we are not using this for
RecentComments.  To be observed.
