:date: 2019-09-27

==========================
Friday, September 27, 2019
==========================

Cannot print accounting report in cosi-ee demo
==============================================


:meth:`lino.modlib.users.UserPlan.run_start_plan` didn't like it when it found
more than one instances of a plan for a given user.   In
:mod:`lino_book.projects.cosi_ee` it said :message:`MultipleObjectsReturned:
get() returned more than one Report -- it returned 2!` Now it simply deletes
them all in that case.  This should fix :ticket:`3232`.

But it doesn't yet. Because the reports cannot be deleted.  It says::

  AjaxExceptionResponse ProtectedError: ("Cannot delete some instances of model
  'Report' because they are referenced through a protected foreign key:
  'AccountEntry.report'", <QuerySet [AccountEntry #1 ('AccountEntry object
  (1)'), AccountEntry #2 ('AccountEntry object (2)'), AccountEntry #3
  ('AccountEntry object (3)'), AccountEntry #4 ('AccountEntry object (4)'),
  AccountEntry #5 ('AccountEntry object (5)'), AccountEntry #6 ('AccountEntry
  object (6)'), AccountEntry #7 ('AccountEntry object (7)'), AccountEntry #8
  ('AccountEntry object (8)'), AccountEntry #9 ('AccountEntry object (9)'),
  AccountEntry #10 ('AccountEntry object (10)'), AccountEntry #11 ('AccountEntry
  object (11)'), AccountEntry #12 ('AccountEntry object (12)'), AccountEntry #13
  ('AccountEntry object (13)'), AccountEntry #14 ('AccountEntry object (14)'),
  AccountEntry #15 ('AccountEntry object (15)'), AccountEntry #16 ('AccountEntry
  object (16)'), AccountEntry #17 ('AccountEntry object (17)'), AccountEntry #18
  ('AccountEntry object (18)'), AccountEntry #19 ('AccountEntry object (19)'),
  AccountEntry #20 ('AccountEntry object (20)'), '...(remaining elements
  truncated)...']>)

.. currentmodule:: lino_xl.lib.sheets

Indeed the :attr:`allow_cascaded_delete
<lino.core.model.Model.allow_cascaded_delete>` of the report items weren't set
correctly! For :class:`PartnerEntry` it was ``['partner']``,  for
:class:`ItemEntry` it was ``['item']`` and for :class:`AccountEntry` it was
``['account']``.  This was plain bullshit.  When you inadvertently try to delete
a partner who is mentioned in an accounting report, you want Lino to refuse your
action (not to remove the entry from the report).

TODO: So from now on it might happen that deleting a partner or an account is
being refused because some old accounting report exists. This might disturb
because Lino doesn't currently tidy up these reports after some time.  A
:term:`site administrator` can however go to :menuselection:`Explorer --> Accounting
--> Accounting reports` and delete them manually.

There is maybe yet another bug in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.sheets` : :ticket:`3233`.
Less urgent.
