:date: 2019-10-03

=========================
Thursday, October 3, 2019
=========================

PyPI release for :ref:`avanti` and upgraded their :term:`preview site`.


'PaymentOrder' object has no attribute 'your_ref'
=================================================

.. currentmodule:: lino_xl.lib.accounting

I worked on :ticket:`3236` ('PaymentOrder' object has no attribute 'your_ref')

Reproducible in :mod:`lino_book.projects.cosi3`. Select organization "Garage
Mergelsberg", go to the Accounting tab and click on "19 open movements (758.68 €)".

I added a method :meth:`Voucher.get_movement_description` which
is extended by :class:`lino_xl.lib.sepa.Payable` to also show the
:attr:`lino_xl.lib.sepa.Payable.your_ref` field (unless it is empty).

I saw a problem in the demo data which led to the discovery of a bug:

Payment orders were also suggesting negative payments (e.g. open sales
invoices). The filter condition was not enough.  I added a new filter parameter
:attr:`ExpectedMovements.same_dc` and have it used by
:class:`lino_xl.lib.finan.SuggestionsByPaymentOrder`. I had to change the
signature of the :func:`get_due_movements` function because the new condition
caused a :message:`TypeError: get_due_movements() got multiple values for
argument 'dc'`. I opened a ticket for this: :ticket:`3251`.

Also at least one more thing to show in a demo: the quick search field in
booking suggestions (e.g. :class:`SuggestionsByPaymentOrder
<lino_xl.lib.finan.SuggestionsByPaymentOrder>`) now works. This was
:ticket:`3215`.


Payment orders weren't cleared by bank statement in the :fixture:`demo_bookings`
fixture. Code change: Whether a payment order generates individual counter
entries (one per partner) no longer depends on  :attr:`Account.needs_partner`
but on whether the journal has a partner or not (whether :attr:`Journal.partner`
is empty or not).



TODO: remove Account.needs_partner and replace all usages to use
Account.clearable instead. The two fields are now synonyms. Their difference has
indeed always been mysterious...

More issues and observations to meditate:

- Consider a creditor for which a payment order has been registered, but that
  payment order is still pending (not yet cleared by a bank statement).
  Lino currently shows these creditors as debtors.
  Lino should know that being negative in certain accounts shouldn't count for
  the Debtors and Creditors report.

- Some organizations are strictly speaking "creditors", but we are not used to
  show them in the list of creditors: e.g. banks and tax offices.

- :ticket:`3236` is fixed, but the :attr:`Movements.description` field and
  :meth:`Voucher.get_movement_description` is probably not finished, maybe they
  don't always show enough information, or too much.

PS: I committed above changes only the next day because the test suites required
revision.
