:date: 2019-10-11

========================
Friday, October 11, 2019
========================

Multiple primary coachings
==========================

I did :ticket:`3137` for :ref:`welcht` : New plugin setting
:attr:`multiple_primary_coachings
<lino_xl.lib.coachings.Plugin.multiple_primary_coachings>` for
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.coachings`.  When this is set to True, the uniqueness of the
primary coaching is no longer just per client but per client and :term:`coaching
type`. As a result you can have multiple primary coachings per client.

I applied this change as a local patch on their :term:`production site`.

Reviewed the Developer and Contributor Guides
=============================================

I made more changes in the book about installing Lino. :ticket:`40`.

Miscellaneous bugs
==================

Fixed a side effect of :ticket:`3212`.   When working on this ticket  I wasn't
aware that Avanti also uses :mod:`lino.modlib.comments`. This side effect  had
slipped through the test suite simply because the
:mod:`lino_book.projects.avanti1` demo site had no comments. Now it has, and the
side effect wouldn't have gone unnoticed, so our coverage has increased :-)
It seems that there was yet another hidden bug
:class:`lino.modlib.memo.PreviewableChecker` which became visible.

To fix the actual problem (a :class:`Client` indeed has no field
:attr:`lino_xl.lib.tickets.Ticket.site`), I added a new method
:meth:`lino.modlib.comments.Commentable.get_comment_group`.   And
:class:`lino_xl.lib.tickets.Ticket` overrides this to return ``self.site``, but
the default implementation returns `None`.

'The :class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.DailyPlanner` has become empty in the dashboard of
two demo databases. I guess that this is caused by Tonis' recent work on the
calendar view.  He didn't know that this table is also being used as a dashboard
item and via the menu.  Tonis, please have a look at this failure::

  doctest docs/specs/tera/cal.rst


Last changes for :ref:`avanti`
==============================

Meeting with Johanna.  We scheduled next Friday as the big date for their server
move.  We also identified two more things to optimize:

- Wir haben noch einen kleinen Denkfehler entdeckt : es muss nur eine
  Standard-Klientenkontaktart "ÖSHZ" geben, und im Bericht muss Lino die
  Funktion des Sozis drucken.

- Logo im Bericht und Nummer raus aus dem Titel.

Lino and mailing lists
======================

Hamza and I had a hangout where we continued to work on :ticket:`3196` (Find an
alternative solution for mailman and migrate to the new server)

- We forget about Sympa because we discovered Mailman 3. MM3 has even a REST API
  while `Sympa uses SOAP
  <https://sympa-community.github.io/manual/customize/soap-api.html>`_ which is
  more heavy.

- Luc sends a warning mail to the active mailman lists

- Hamza migrates Mailman as it is from the old to the new
- Later we upgrade mm2 to mm3 and extend Lino's list plugin to use the mm3 rest api.
- static Apache documentation sites : Configure book doctree on the new LF for nginx
- Manually re-create all websites as for the book
