:date: 2019-10-13

========================
Sunday, October 13, 2019
========================

In :file:`/etc/nginx/sites-available/lino-framework-org.conf` I changed::

       server_name lino-framework.org docs.lino-framework.org;

to::

       server_name lino-framework.org www.lino-framework.org;

The :ref:`book` is now again visible at
http://www.lino-framework.org/
(this was needed as some links point there).

The same file also confirms what Hamza and I decided to do::

       root /var/www/public_html/book_docs;

That is the static files are no longer under my user account but under
:file:`/var/www`.

So I must update my :xfile:`./.invoke.py` file I must change
:envvar:`docs_rsync_dest` from::

  docs_rsync_dest = 'luc@lino-framework.org:~/public_html/{prj}_{docs}'

to::

  docs_rsync_dest = 'luc@lino-framework.org:/var/www/public_html/{prj}_{docs}'

so that I can update the book by running :cmd:`inv bd pd`.

I added nginx config for http://community.lino-framework.org/ (by copying
:file:`luc-lino-framework-org.conf` to :file:`community-lino-framework-org.conf`
and creating the link to `sites-enabled`).


Mailing lists on the new server
===============================

I tried to get the mailing lists running on the new server.  Hamza copied the
mailman configs correctly, but it doesn't yet work because Postfix is not yet
installed. And Postfix uses Dovecot (POP and IMAP), and indeed we want this as
well on the new server.

I did ``sudo apt install postfix`` and then copied the :file:`/etc/postfix`
directory from the old server. Similar procedure for Dovecot (``sudo apt install
dovecot-common``). Note that I didn't do a simple recursive scp of the whole
directories but rather manually selected which files to copy.

I saw that both Postfix and Dovecot require certbot certificates.

I installed `certbot <https://certbot.eff.org/lets-encrypt/debianbuster-nginx>`
(`sudo apt-get install certbot python-certbot-nginx`).

Only then I remembered that certbot was already installed for kopano and the
`new.lino-framework.org`.  Seems that the new install didn't hurt.

Can I simply copy the certbot config files from the old server? What will
certbot say if we ask it to certify the known lino-frameworg.org hostnames with
a new IP address? Tonis suggested to try a plain copy.
