:date: 2019-10-16

===========================
Wednesday, October 16, 2019
===========================

Congratulations to Tonis who implemented the new callbacks handling system that
fixes :ticket:`3228`, a quite fundamental change in the heart of Lino.

The only problem on the production server was :ticket:`3269`.
But how to reproduce it without having a Belgian ID card?

I added a new setting :attr:`simulate_eidreader_path
<lino_xl.lib.beid.Plugin.simulate_eidreader_path>` for :mod:`lino_xl.lib.beid`.
Used in :mod:`lino_book.projects.avanti1`.

So, Tonis, you say :manage:`runserver` in :mod:`lino_book.projects.avanti1`,
sign in as robin, click on the `[Read ID card]` quick link and poof.  Happy
debugging!

NB: The book isn't yet up to date because :cmd:`inv bd` fails after my changes.
We can reproduce it by saying::

  $ export DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=lino_book.projects.avanti1.settings
  $ python -m lino_avanti.lib.avanti.models

Maybe this is related to the failures in :ref:`welfare` caused by
:ticket:`3228`.

I fixed this by removing two :xfile:`models.py` modules from the autosummary
entry in their parent (:mod:`lino_voga.lib.contacts` and
:mod:`lino_avanti.lib.avanti`).  That's correct: we don't want have
:xfile:`models.py` modules autodocumented.  But I don't understand why this
error didn't occur earlier...


Reverse DNS
===========

The Reverse DNS field for 167.114.229.225 was empty at OVH. I now set it to
`lino-framework.org` using the OVH web interface.
This fixed our last issue with postfix.
I started a :ref:`admin.postfix`.
Same operation for
``saffre-rumma.net`` (which was ``ip122.ip-167-114-252.eu.`` before) and
``mylino.net`` (which was empty).
