:date: 2019-10-19

==========================
Saturday, October 19, 2019
==========================

Congratulations to Tonis who fixed :ticket:`3277` in a better way (using a FK
field) than I had suggested (using a new table). I did some merely cosmetic
changes when reviewing the code.

The test suites in book and welfare still had failures caused by Tonis' and my
recent changes. I adapted them and thought that one day we will do it as the
Django project where a change doesn't even get committed if it causes some test
to fail. Meanwhile we are a family-sized team: I am glad that Tonis worked on
this on a Saturday, and I do the dirty administrative work because I want to
release it and then update the avanti production server before Monday.

The :file:`test_beid.py` in avanti1 failed because the new
:attr:`lino_xl.lib.beid.Plugin.simulate_eidreader_path` caused the wrong data to
get loaded.  That was my mistake.

Some doctests in book failed because of a dangling `SPACE` in JS code generated
by :mod:`lino.core.renderer`.

One failure caused me to start a small refactoring of how applications can
configure where pictures are to be stored. They can now simply override some
methods in their BeIdCardHolder model.  The current default implementation has
the disadvantage that they are all stored in a single directory.  In weleup
there are thousands of these image files.

I tidied up the code in :mod:`lino.core.callbacks`. A :class:`CallbackManager`
instance is no longer used.

The failure in welfare :file:`docs/specs/welcht/misc.rst` is still failing.
It is yet another side effect of the new callback handling.
I guess that :meth:`lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.set_confirm_answer` no longer works.
Or maybe because this action (EditTemplate) has two confirmations.
This won't stop me from doing the release since this action is not used by anybody ATM.


Released Lino 19.10.3, XL 19.10.3 and Avanti 19.10.2 to PyPI.

Released Lino 19.10.4 (bugfix for 19.10.3)
