:date: 2019-10-28

========================
Monday, October 28, 2019
========================

Standup meeting
===============

We forgot about the switch from summer to winter time. Hamza was waiting for us
at 8am (as usual for him), but Tonis and I arrived only at 10am (as usual for
us)...

Hamza got mentions (:mod:`lino.modlib.comments`) working and released on Jane
Congratulations. Now he was stuck with the problem of sending a notification
when a user is mentioned in a comment. I asked him to stop working on this
because it is rather a problem of the notifications framework
(:mod:`lino.modlib.notify`). More important is to show, in the detail of a
ticket, the list of comments that mention this ticket. I started working in the
comments code with Hamza watching.
:class:`lino.modlib.comments.CommentsByMentioned`.

Tonis suggested (and basically convinced me) to move away from generating HTML
on the server and to use a "client-side views" approach instead.  But that needs
more investigation.

Hamza "disappeared" at some moment, probably a connection issue on his side.

I started using the new "Teams" table in Hobbit.

What name do we prefer for our Noi site? : "Hobbit" or "Jane"? The two sites
should become either "jane" and "e-jane" or "hobbit" and "e-hobbit". I seem to
prefer Jane because the choice makes some sense and is easier to explain to
others.

Priorities by developer until Wednesday:

- Tonis : Modular dashboard components

- Hamza : work on the getlino test suite (use travis matrix to setup the
  different setup variants (developer / contributor / production / demo)

- Luc : finish my review of comments, write offers Presto and Avanti, work on a
  TIM customer request.


Before pushing my work on  :class:`lino.modlib.comments.CommentsByMentioned` to
master I should get the test suite passing.

One failure (in :ref:`dg.plugins.tickets`) shows me that :ticket:`3284` interferes
with a series of changes I plan for Noi regarding our business model for next
year: The customers want us to sell "maintenance contracts" for a
:term:`production site`.  A maintenance contract is always for a given date
range and has a number of hours to be worked on. This "hour credit" or
"contingent" of an order becomes void at the end of the date range.  It is
commercially equivalent to what I have been calling "yearly fee" until now, but
easier to sell because it includes a number of free hours. And because this is a
common concept. As a first step I plan to change the verbose_name for
:class:`tickets.Site` from "Site" to "Order". And en passant I would add some
new fields: :attr:`start_date`, :attr:`end_date` and :attr:`hours_paid`. A
"Site" or "Order" is a designated and formulated goal for which somebody is
ready to pay. We have a lot of "internal" orders: we want ourselves to work on
something. These sites will simply have empty :attr:`end_date` and
:attr:`hours_paid` Seen like this, the sites in Noi might become a new type of
vouchers and are stored in a journal. We might even print them out and use them
as the maintenance contract for the customer. Lino should not allow anybody to
work on a ticket if its order has no credit left. We can always create a new
order and move the ticket there.

I opened :ticket:`3301` for these ideas.

The :attr:`contact_person` of a site is now more important because this points
to the :term:`site expert`.

This change would make it possible that Lino computes itself the remaining hours
in a service report. Until now I had to compute these myself.

Note that :ticket:`3028` probably becomes useless then.

Yes, :ref:`noi` is becoming an full project management system :-)

There is more to do:

- Every :class:`working.Session` should store both the ticket and the site (the order).
- Continue to remove :class:`tickets.Subscription`
- Move :class:`lino_xl.lib.tickets.Site` to :mod:`lino_xl.lib.working` (:ticket:`3303`)
- Disable StartSession on tickets whose Site is not active.
- Automatically generate service reports
