:date: 2019-11-01

========================
Friday, November 1, 2019
========================

I fixed some more test failures caused by miscellaneous recent changes (:ticket:`881`):

.. currentmodule:: lino.core.requests

One was in book, caused by my yesterday change in
:meth:`BaseRequest.confirm` when
:meth:`BaseRequest.set_confirm_answer` was used.

The other (:message:`ImportError: cannot import name 'get_image_path'` in
:ref:`welfare`) was caused by a change I did some days ago.

Two failures were because I removed the
:attr:`server_status` field from :class:`lino.modlib.about.About`.

And in :file:`docs/specs/welcht/misc.rst` there was a problem caused by the new
callback handling.  The test creates a file
:file:`config/immersion/Contract/Default.odt` in
:mod:`lino_welfare.projects.mathieu` because that doctest uses
:meth:`BaseRequest.run` which spawns a child request, and the setting given
previously by :meth:`BaseRequest.set_confirm_answer`  was not being inherited to
that child request.


Miscellaneous
=============

Tonis made that the dashboard in :ref:`react` now issues separated Ajax requests
for each dashboard item. New attribute
:attr:`lino.core.renderer.Renderer.hide_dashboard_items`.

The book docs still didn't build on readthedocs. I added a missing eidreader
dependency in :file:`requirements.stable.txt`

I fixed a failure in the book test suite on travis which hadn't occurred on my
machine because I always had a :xfile:`default.db` file from a previous
:manage:`prep` run.

I started a new page :ref:`dev.screencasts` in the Developers Guide. I also
tried to add the mp4 files of my screencasts to the book repository, but oops,
that doesn't work::

  [master 5ae7057] http://luc.lino-framework.org/blog/2019/1101.html
   7 files changed, 32 insertions(+)
   create mode 100644 docs/data/videos/vokoscreen-2019-10-21_11-05-56.mp4
   create mode 100644 docs/data/videos/vokoscreen-2019-10-23_05-56-03.mp4
   create mode 100644 docs/data/videos/vokoscreen-2019-10-23_07-33-49.mp4
   create mode 100644 docs/data/videos/vokoscreen-2019-10-23_08-33-38.mp4
   create mode 100644 docs/dev/screencasts.rst
  Counting objects: 13, done.
  Delta compression using up to 4 threads.
  Compressing objects: 100% (13/13), done.
  Writing objects: 100% (13/13), 385.46 MiB | 2.90 MiB/s, done.
  Total 13 (delta 5), reused 0 (delta 0)
  remote: Resolving deltas: 100% (5/5), completed with 5 local objects.
  remote: error: GH001: Large files detected. You may want to try Git Large File Storage - https://git-lfs.github.com.
  remote: error: Trace: 8e965936f1f793356f93ccb06127aed3
  remote: error: See http://git.io/iEPt8g for more information.
  remote: error: File docs/data/videos/vokoscreen-2019-10-23_05-56-03.mp4 is 216.53 MB; this exceeds GitHub's file size limit of 100.00 MB
  remote: error: File docs/data/videos/vokoscreen-2019-10-23_07-33-49.mp4 is 128.79 MB; this exceeds GitHub's file size limit of 100.00 MB
  To github.com:lino-framework/book.git
   ! [remote rejected] master -> master (pre-receive hook declined)
  error: failed to push some refs to 'git@github.com:lino-framework/book.git'


Optimizations in Amici
======================

Default :term:`front end` is now :ref:`react`.

Added some fields to the insert_layout of
:class:`lino_amici.lib.contacts.Persons`.
