:date: 2019-11-02

==========================
Saturday, November 2, 2019
==========================

Travis and readthedocs
======================

I finally wrote a letter to Natalia and did a few optimizations in :ref:`book`
and :ref:`cg`.

I fixed a doctest failure in :ref:`specs.dashboard` caused by the new
:meth:`__repr__` method of dashboard item. Also optimized that method.

I am trying to get :ref:`book` to build on readthedocs automatically  after each
commit. But it tells me things I don't really understand:

- Version locked, retrying in 5 minutes.
- Webhook activation failed. Make sure you have the necessary permissions.

According to their `Webhooks
<https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/webhooks.html>`_ it should work
automatically, but it doesn't...


weleup
======

I did a series of manual tests on the new server for weleup to prepare their
next release. Mostly for :ticket:`3026`.  Also reviewed the release notes
(:ref:`weleup.19.11.0`).

After the data migration there is only one checkdata message. I had to manually
invoke :manage:`checkdata`::

  $ python manage.py checkdata
  Started manage.py checkdata (using lino_local.xxxxxx.settings) --> PID 19155
  Found 606 and fixed 0 data problems in Partners.
  Found 1 and fixed 0 data problems in Income confirmations.
  Found 5667 and fixed 0 data problems in Clients.
  Found 196 and fixed 0 data problems in Calendar entries.
  Found 64 and fixed 0 data problems in Places.
  Found 225 and fixed 0 data problems in Excerpts.
  Found 44 and fixed 0 data problems in Events/Notes.
  Done 35 checks, found 6803 and fixed 0 problems.
  Done manage.py checkdata (PID 19155)

Afterwards they had many messages, but only one from
:class:`lino.modlib.system.BleachChecker`.
I analyzed that case (a :class:`lino_xl.lib.notes.Note`) and verified that the difference was trivial.
I added some test cases in :ref:`bleaching`.

Conclusion: it is safe for them to activate bleaching when migrating their data to the new server.

The fact that I had to run it manually means that their :manage:`linod` wasn't running.

I noted that there isn't yet any daily cron job configured on their new
server.

I also manually added a :xfile:`healthcheck.sh` script. TODO: have getlino do
this.

I ran `sudo apt upgrade` and verified that monit has not been added to the
Debian 10. I still some hope that it might come back "automatically" because I
read that three weeks ago it has been  `accepted into unstable
<https://tracker.debian.org/pkg/monit>`__.


First PyPI release of lino_react
================================

I had some minor issues before getting it published. For example
:message:`HTTPError: 400 Client Error: Invalid value for classifiers. Error:
'License :: OSI Approved :: BSD LIcense' is not a valid choice for this field`

for url: https://upload.pypi.org/legacy/

And then the first version 19.11.0
doesn't yet include the static and other non-python files.
I added a :xfile:`MANIFEST.in` file and discovered the ``graft`` command
https://docs.python.org/3.7/distutils/commandref.html#sdist-cmd
https://docs.python.org/3.7/distutils/sourcedist.html
https://docs.python.org/2/distutils/sourcedist.html#manifest-template
