:date: 2019-11-07

==========================
Thursday, November 7, 2019
==========================

I probably fixed :ticket:`1234`
(:meth:`lino_xl.lib.addresses.Addressable.get_primary_address` fails when
MultipleObjectsReturned), but didn't yet manage to reproduce it in a test case.
The case occurred on the weleup production server.

Building the book offline
=========================

Yesterday I was several hours offline and tried to build the book. But oops,
that failed because the intersphinx links to the Community Guide (:ref:`cg`)
work only via internet.  Indeed when building the book on travis or readthedocs
it is the normal approach to load intersphinx links from the
:xfile:`objects.inv` of the currently published version. For intersphinx links
to Python modules we can get the :envvar:`intersphinx_urls`, but `cg` has no
Python module.

- Added a new function :func:`atelier.projects.get_project_from_nickname`
- :func:`rstgen.sphinxconf.interproject.configure` now supports intersphinx links
  to pure documentation projects.

Getlino and certbot
===================

I saw that the :cmd:`getlino configure --https` option was appending directly to
the main :file:`/etc/crontab` file. I fixed this quickly.
I also saw that getlino doesn't install certbot as explained `on their
<https://certbot.eff.org/lets-encrypt/debianbuster-nginx>`_.


Organizing the getlino test suite
=================================

Yesterday before going offline I had a hangout with Hamza about how to organize
the test suite for :term:`getlino`.  We had to interrupt our session and now I am
still thinking about the topic.

- How To Achieve Practical End-to-End Testing With Docker Compose
  https://runnable.com/blog/how-to-achieve-practical-end-to-end-testing

- Docker Hub can automatically test changes to your source code repositories using containers.
  https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub/builds/automated-testing/

- Coverage will be another fun topic:
  https://docs.codecov.io/docs/testing-with-docker

- `Clatter <https://clatter.readthedocs.io/en/latest/readme.html>`__ does the
  same as :mod:`atelier.sheller`.  Advantage of Clatter is that it detects bash
  code blocks, which means that the result is more beautiful.  Disadvantage is
  that we would need another loop over all the doc files, and another
  dependency.  I see no need to switch to it.

OVH public cloud VPS was slow for a whole day
=============================================

Today we could not really use :ref:`jane` because she was so slow. We had a lot
of fun for trying to understand what it is.

http://travaux.ovh.net/

http://status.ovh.com/

::  
  cd /mnt/disk/
  sudo dd if=/dev/zero of=diskbench bs=1M count=1024 conv=fdatasync
  sudo dd if=diskbench of=/dev/null bs=1M count=1024
  sudo dd if=/dev/zero bs=1M count=1024 | md5sum
  sudo rm diskbench
