:date: 2019-11-08

========================
Friday, November 8, 2019
========================

"New ticket" instead of "Insert into All Tickets"
=================================================

I fixed :ticket:`3327`.
This was an unpaedagogic move because the ticket was introduced by newbie Amber who should have had the honour of working on it till the end.
But the idea is so good, and I couldn't wait having this in Lino...
And we *would* have to wait because there are a few more issues that I would have to explain to Amber:

- Don't break virtual tables where :attr:`lino.core.actors.Actor.model` is None.
  This is just a theoretic possibility, I didn't yet find an example for it.

- Don't forget to translate this to German and French because the change is
  quite visible and customers would complain otherwise. I have a feeling that
  the translation should use :func:`format_lazy`.

- The book test suite did *not* fail after this change. Which means that the
  code was not covered. The welfare suite however did fail. It's nothing new
  that the welfare test suite covers quite some functionalities which are not
  covered by the book.  I added two of these tests to the book so that the
  change is now covered (in :ref:`lino.specs.households` and :ref:`avanti.specs.avanti`).

Here is a list of the changes that were needed for this ticket:

- 2019-11-08 02:27 in *lino*:
  `fab54ea <https://github.com/lino-framework/lino/commit/d4663aeb0c4bce54fca0408ed62842ee9fab54ea>`__
- 2019-11-08 02:27 in *book*:
  `9431172 <https://github.com/lino-framework/book/commit/747b6249e329aa5bef67ef7b92e5f0d2a9431172>`__
- 2019-11-08 02:27 in *welfare*:
  `8df8c87 <https://github.com/lino-framework/welfare/commit/02216ebbfcc38453d35abad2e2a16647d8df8c87>`__
- 2019-11-08 02:30 in *book*:
  `cc7248f <https://github.com/lino-framework/book/commit/453a5df31e12ef6df4844428c245a7930cc7248f>`__


User types in Lino Noi
======================

Tonis will start working on :ticket:`3313` and :ticket:`3284`.

We should start by reviewing the available user_types in Noi. They should be
named e.g. "Customer", "Contributor", "Trusted Worker", "Site manager". A
customer sees their own contact data but no other customers. A contributor
should not see any customer data and should not have permission to delete any
valuable data. A trusted worker can see all customers, triage tickets, see
overviews, write service reports, ... and a site manager can additionally create
system users.

I added some coverage in a new specs document :ref:`noi.specs.user` (also moved
some sections from :ref:`noi.specs.general` to this new page).  These pages will
change of course after Tonis' work.


A new volunteer contributor
===========================

It is possible that we will get yet another volunteer contributor for Lino:
Khaled from Tunisia.

I asked him to work through :ref:`book` and reviewed it at this occasion, adding
a general paragraph:

  This website is meant to be read like a book, in sequence. Use the "next" and
  "previous" links for navigation.  Feel free to jump to linked pages, but don't
  get lost into details. The Lino Book should be interesting and understandable
  for any motivated Python developer with at least basic knowledge.  But it is
  only **work in progress** and we count on you as a reader to help us. Please
  let us know whenever you stumble over a section that does not satisfy the goal
  of this book.


Trying the Chatter project
================================

Amber discovered that the :mod:`lino_book.projects.chatter` requires a
redis-server to be running.  I updated the instructions in :ref:`dev.install`.

I then tried to install redis-server as instructed. But oops::

  $ getlino configure --clone --devtools --redis
  ...
  File "/home/luc/work/getlino/getlino/configure.py", line 276, in configure
  NameError: name 'context' is not defined

When redis-server is installed and you sign in, you get::

  unsupported operand type(s) for -: 'NoneType' and 'datetime.datetime'

This was an unknown bug in :mod:`lino.modlib.comments`. Fixed.

TODO: The chatter project is underdocumented. Maybe a screen cast would
be nice.
