:date: 2019-11-19

==========================
Tuesday, November 19, 2019
==========================

Documentation about help texts
==============================

I answered to a question posted by Amber on the lino-developers mailing list.

He wrote:

  'Sign in', is self explanatory. Now it is showing the message to the User
  (external, to the customer ), "Open a window which asks for username and
  password and which authenticates as this user when submitted". I guess, this
  message is for internal use and for (Developer/Technical) and not for an
  external user. When the mouse pointer at the 'Sign in', it could be found,
  most of the sites/products do not have any message, at all.


This is indeed the help text of the SignIn action. I agree that this is not the
optimal help text.  It is currently rendered in the Lino Book, in the specs page
for the users plugin: :class:`lino.modlib.users.SignIn`.

The source code for this is in the book repository, in the file
docs/specs/users.rst file which you should have on your computer.

I invite you to change that file on your computer and to submit a pull request!

But note that you won't see your change immediately in a runserver because you
need to build the book for that. I assume that you now want to learn more about
help texts. So I started to review the :ref:`help_texts` page because as usual,
documentation grows upon request. Thanks for requesting!

Lino Ciao
=========

I published a new Lino application: :ref:`ciao`.

I changed :ticket:`3343` for this from "Lino Canti" to "Lino Ciao". I changed
the project's basic target from "groups of singers" (which would be a quite
narrow audience) to simply "A free alternative to meetup.com" (which
definitively has a more widely used functionality).

My plan is to have Amber work on this. Because he seems good in exploring and
evaluating a Lino application from the outside.  The big job for amber is to
help us with turning :ref:`ciao` into an application that works intuitively and
out of the box even for low-motivated occasional users.



Cannot install PyPI version of :ref:`react`
===========================================

I had this problem when trying to test :ref:`ciao` using tox::

  $ pip install lino-react
  Collecting lino-react
    Using cached https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/6f/bb/e5b2e69be391a060532a5e53481d234add5871a62de0d0e7e1ceac930ee5/lino_react-19.11.1.tar.gz
      ERROR: Command errored out with exit status 1:
       command: /home/luc/tmp/t/bin/python3 -c 'import sys, setuptools, tokenize; sys.argv[0] = '"'"'/tmp/pip-install-112e6_9b/lino-react/setup.py'"'"'; __file__='"'"'/tmp/pip-install-112e6_9b/lino-react/setup.py'"'"';f=getattr(tokenize, '"'"'open'"'"', open)(__file__);code=f.read().replace('"'"'\r\n'"'"', '"'"'\n'"'"');f.close();exec(compile(code, __file__, '"'"'exec'"'"'))' egg_info --egg-base /tmp/pip-install-112e6_9b/lino-react/pip-egg-info
           cwd: /tmp/pip-install-112e6_9b/lino-react/
      Complete output (8 lines):
      running egg_info
      creating /tmp/pip-install-112e6_9b/lino-react/pip-egg-info/lino_react.egg-info
      writing /tmp/pip-install-112e6_9b/lino-react/pip-egg-info/lino_react.egg-info/PKG-INFO
      writing dependency_links to /tmp/pip-install-112e6_9b/lino-react/pip-egg-info/lino_react.egg-info/dependency_links.txt
      writing requirements to /tmp/pip-install-112e6_9b/lino-react/pip-egg-info/lino_react.egg-info/requires.txt
      writing top-level names to /tmp/pip-install-112e6_9b/lino-react/pip-egg-info/lino_react.egg-info/top_level.txt
      writing manifest file '/tmp/pip-install-112e6_9b/lino-react/pip-egg-info/lino_react.egg-info/SOURCES.txt'
      error: package directory 'lino_react/projects' does not exist
      ----------------------------------------
  ERROR: Command errored out with exit status 1: python setup.py egg_info Check the logs for full command output.

Fixed it by reviewing the :xfile:`MANIFEST.in` of :ref:`react` and doing a new
PyPI release.
