:date: 2019-11-30

===========================
Saturday, November 30, 2019
===========================

Which editor to use?
====================

We started discussing about which editor to use.
We are currently using PyCharm, VsCode, and Atom.
Each team member uses a different editor!
Isn't that a nice example to show how complex the question is?

Tonis uses PyCharm, but needs syntax highlighting also for js and css.  That's
not included in the community version.  They want some 90$ per year per
developer for a "pro" license. But we should then also make some donation of at
least the same amount to Python and Django. Until now we didn't support them
because I believe that we aren't yet making so much money. It would be unfair to
pay to those who are not nice while we leave PSF and DSF without support because
they are nice.

I read `Atom still spies on the user even prior to consent request
<https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/e3g2v4/atom_still_spies_on_the_user_even_prior_to/?utm_medium=android_app&utm_source=share>`__
on reddit. Oho, I didn't know that Atom belongs to the Microsoft imperium. I
thought it was rather Google.

I rediscovered Geany. They at least are small, and they are carried by a
non-profit organization. Lino should learn from (get inspired by) they
`Contribute <https://www.geany.org/contribute/>`_ page.  Simply :cmd:`sudo apt
install geany`. But oh no, geany doesn't even have a fuzzy file opener. I can't
imagine working without that anymore.

I can now installed VsCode as explained on `visualstudio.com
<https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/linux>`__::

  $ curl https://packages.microsoft.com/keys/microsoft.asc | gpg --dearmor > packages.microsoft.gpg
  $ sudo install -o root -g root -m 644 packages.microsoft.gpg /usr/share/keyrings/
  $ sudo sh -c 'echo "deb [arch=amd64 signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/packages.microsoft.gpg] https://packages.microsoft.com/repos/vscode stable main" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/vscode.list'
  $ sudo apt-get update
  $ sudo apt-get install code

Launch it by saying :cmd:`code`. That was easy.  They did good work.

But I will ask Hamza to assist me for configuring it.
En attendant I will remain with Atom.
