:date: 2019-12-01

========================
Sunday, December 1, 2019
========================

Mari wanted to re-work on a presentation she realized last year using sozi, an
extension for Inkscape.

I tried::

  $ sudo apt-get install sozi

In Inkscape I now have :menuselection:`Extensions --> Sozi`.  But launching it
causes error messages. The first error was something about Canberra not being
loaded, it went away after doing (thanks to `askubuntu.com
<https://askubuntu.com/questions/342202/failed-to-load-module-canberra-gtk-module-but-already-installed>`_)::

    $ sudo apt install libcanberra-gtk-module libcanberra-gtk3-module

The next one didn't yet go away::

  Traceback (most recent call last):
    File "sozi.py", line 27, in <module>
      import pygtk
  ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'pygtk'

I intuitively tried::

  $ sudo apt-get install python-gtk2-dev

That didn't help.

After reading `this issue <https://github.com/senshu/Sozi/issues/291>`__ I guess
that Sozi (or Inkscape) has problems on machines with more than one Python
installation. Needs more investigation.

Meanwhile Mari had told me that she will rather use a Windows computer at school
tomorrow where she can use prezi.com...

The author of sozi is Guillaume Savaton who writes "Sozi is a personal project
that I develop in my spare time with the occasional help of several other
developers and a lot of translators. I develop Sozi for my own use, and I share
it with you for free in the hope that you will find it useful. For this reason,
the development of Sozi does not follow a well-defined roadmap and I tend to
focus on developing features that I will actually use." (`baierouge.fr
<https://sozi.baierouge.fr/community/d/88-funding-the-development-of-new-features-for-sozi>`__)

Guillaume accepts donations using  `different systems
<https://sozi.baierouge.fr/pages/70-donate.html>`__, one of them is
`Liberapay <https://liberapay.com/>`__, driven by a

GitHub also started a donations system, which is currently in beta. The Sphinx
project's maintainer Takeshi KOMIYA invited us to donate. I wonder how he will
receive that money, and how much does GitHub get for their service? I searched
`their docs
<https://help.github.com/en/github/supporting-the-open-source-community-with-github-sponsors/sponsoring-open-source-contributors>`__
but did not get any answer.

Offering a service and deliberately not explaining how it is being financed...
such behaviour triggers allergic reaction to me...

Donation networks seem to be a great solution for carrying the maintenance of
free software projects.  But they must be transparent and decentralized,
otherwise you drive out devils replacing them with Beelzebub. And maybe they are
unefficient. Because there are hundreds of FOSS projects that deserve some of my
money.  A whole budgeting system! Do you imagine me managing this? 
