:date: 2019-12-05

==========================
Thursday, December 5, 2019
==========================

Working on getlino test suite
=============================

I opened :ticket:`3383` and then saw that Hamza had already done it :-) I saw
that `travis now says <https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/getlino>`__
:message:`AttributeError: 'BaseDockerTest' object has no attribute 'docker_tag'`
and fixed that (it was a typo in my last commit). Next problem : I opened
:ticket:`3384` but didn't start working on this.


Preparing a demo for cosi_ee
============================

Summary of the demo tour:

- create a person "Tom Testa", register a sales invoice for him. Dated today (outside the dates of existing invoices)
- create a company "Testers OÜ" and register a purchases invoice for them. Same date.
- register a VAT declaration

At this point I saw that (1) it's not easy to visualize which invoices are
covered by a declaration and (2) The Estonian VAT declaration is currently just
an adapted copy of the Belgian one. I started to adapt it to the `Estonian law
<https://www.riigiteataja.ee/akt/118112014002?leiaKehtiv>`__, but that's not
finished.


See invoices being declared by a VAT declaration
================================================

..currentmodule:: lino_xl.lib.vat

Two new tables :class:`PurchasesByDeclaration` and :class:`SalesByDeclaration`
in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.vat`.  These are included in the :class:`VatDeclaration`
detail view of :mod:`lino_xl.lib.eevat` (other national plugins will follow).

As a side effect we have a new model mixin :class:`VatVoucher`. This mixin is
needed as the model of the new table :class:`VatInvoices`, which is the abstract
base for our two new tables and the two existing tables :class:`IntracomSales`
and :class:`IntracomPurchases`.  A table on an abstract model calls --of
course-- only the :meth:`setup_parameters
<lino.core.model.Model.setup_parameters>` of the abstract model.  So we needed a
mixin that extends :class:`VatDocument` by inheriting also from
:class:`lino_xl.lib.ledger.Voucher` and :class:`lino_xl.lib.sepa.Payable`. This
was needed because otherwise the two new tables didn't get the parameter fields
`start_period` and `end_period` defined in
:class:`lino_xl.lib.ledger.PeriodRangeObservable`.


I fell into a subtle pit: :class:`IntracomPurchases` had the following
:attr:`params_layout` inherited from :class:`ledger.PartnerVouchers`::

  params_layout = "partner project state journal start_period end_period cleared"

and it has the following :attr:`hidden_elements`::

    hidden_elements = frozenset(
        """entry_date journal__trade_type journal number
        journal__trade_type state user""".split())

The hidden_elements are meant for data fields, but two of them (journal and
state) have the same name as a parameter field.  I must explicitly remove them
from the :attr:`params_layout` to avoid an error message about "expected 6
parameter values but got only 4"::

  params_layout = "partner project start_period end_period cleared"
