:date: 2019-12-06

========================
Friday, December 6, 2019
========================

Today's changes are about two things.

Optimizations around MissingAccount
===================================

I fixed two bugs that came when some common account was not configured: A bug in
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.sheets` that caused a  TypeError  "int() argument must be a
string, a bytes-like object or a number, not 'MissingAccount'" when you tried to
render :class:`lino_xl.lib.sheets.Report`. And an AttributeError
"'MissingAccount' object has no attribute 'get_detail_action'" when tried to
show the list of trade types.

The :fixture:`std` fixture for :mod:`lino_xl.lib.accounting` now deliberately leaves
one common account (the "Net loss" one, which isn't used anywhere so far)
without a database object in order to reproduce this situation. I added test
cases to cover it.

Testing the content of a detail window
======================================

After this side step I can finally configure the fields of the VAT
declaration...

... but the main challenge with this task is that the mere *testing of the
results* ("Is the number in field XYZ correct?") is a lot of work because it
requires diving into the stuff and the language of VAT offices. I want to do
that work only once if possible. IOW : no manual testing. Everything must be
tested in the specs.  A good example of where you want test-driven development.

And Lino does not yet have a way to say in a doctest:

>>> obj = eevat.VatDeclaration.objets.get(id=3)
>>> rt.show(obj)
(and the expected output would be a textual representation of a detail window of
that database object)

So I opened :ticket:`3395`. At first I thought about doing it with Selenium, but
then I simply extended :func:`lino.utils.py2rst` to also support rendering a
database object. I added a test case to the specs page for :ref:`dg.plugins.eevat`.

Voilà, testing is set up.
I can start doing that dull work of configuring those damn VAT fields.
