:date: 2019-12-11

============================
Wednesday, December 11, 2019
============================

Learning about mail servers
===========================

The PTR record issue seems fixed, but ticket :ticket:`3339` is still open. There
are at least two mailing list on LF having this problem.   The people say that
they have no problem receiving mails to their @hot.ee address from other
senders. I want to understand what's happening.

``mx1.hot.ee[194.126.101.119]:25``
continues to say "Service currently unavailable (in reply to RCPT TO command))"
when LF wants to deliver them 3 mails to recipients `@hot.ee`.  And when LF
tries again 5 minutes later, it even says "550 5.7.1 Connection timed out (in
reply to end of DATA command))".

I guess they are using postscreen. Quote from the `docs
<http://www.postfix.org/POSTSCREEN_README.html>`_: "In a typical deployment,
postscreen(8) handles the MX service on TCP port 25, while MUA clients submit
mail via the submission service on TCP port 587 which requires client
authentication. Alternatively, a site could set up a dedicated, non-postscreen,
"port 25" server that provides submission service and client authentication, but
no MX service."

How can I test an SMTP relay server from outside?   I mean a little program that
sends an email and then reports how the server "behaves". On `wormly.com
<https://www.wormly.com/test-smtp-server>`__ there is a page that does exactly
what I mean. When sending to luc@lino-framework.org I get a normal answer::

  Resolving hostname...
  Connecting...
  Connection: opening to lino-framework.org:25, timeout=300, options=array (
        	         )
  Connection: opened
  SERVER -> CLIENT: 220 mail.lino-framework.org ESMTP Postfix (Debian/GNU)
  CLIENT -> SERVER: EHLO tools.wormly.com
  SERVER -> CLIENT: 250-mail.lino-framework.org
        	         250-PIPELINING
        	         250-SIZE 10240000
        	         250-VRFY
        	         250-ETRN
        	         250-STARTTLS
        	         250-AUTH PLAIN
        	         250-AUTH=PLAIN
        	         250-ENHANCEDSTATUSCODES
        	         250-8BITMIME
        	         250-DSN
        	         250-SMTPUTF8
        	         250 CHUNKING
  CLIENT -> SERVER: STARTTLS
  SERVER -> CLIENT: 220 2.0.0 Ready to start TLS
  CLIENT -> SERVER: EHLO tools.wormly.com
  SERVER -> CLIENT: 250-mail.lino-framework.org
        	         250-PIPELINING
        	         250-SIZE 10240000
        	         250-VRFY
        	         250-ETRN
        	         250-AUTH PLAIN
        	         250-AUTH=PLAIN
        	         250-ENHANCEDSTATUSCODES
        	         250-8BITMIME
        	         250-DSN
        	         250-SMTPUTF8
        	         250 CHUNKING
  CLIENT -> SERVER: MAIL FROM:
  SERVER -> CLIENT: 250 2.1.0 Ok
  CLIENT -> SERVER: RCPT TO:
  SERVER -> CLIENT: 250 2.1.5 Ok
  CLIENT -> SERVER: DATA
  SERVER -> CLIENT: 354 End data with .
  CLIENT -> SERVER: Date: Wed, 11 Dec 2019 09:34:17 +0000
  CLIENT -> SERVER: To: luc@lino-framework.org
  CLIENT -> SERVER: From: Wormly SMTP Test
  CLIENT -> SERVER: Subject: Wormly SMTP Test Message
  CLIENT -> SERVER: Message-ID: <1639293d056826af4d71d7d9cf551c96@blog.wormly.com>
  CLIENT -> SERVER: MIME-Version: 1.0
  CLIENT -> SERVER: Content-Type: text/plain; charset=iso-8859-1
  CLIENT -> SERVER:
  CLIENT -> SERVER: This message was sent using the Wormly SMTP testing tool by this user:
  CLIENT -> SERVER: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Ubuntu; Linux x86_64; rv:71.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/71.0
  CLIENT -> SERVER: 84.50.167.213
  CLIENT -> SERVER:
  CLIENT -> SERVER: .
  SERVER -> CLIENT: 250 2.0.0 Ok: queued as AA3D27E54
  CLIENT -> SERVER: QUIT
  SERVER -> CLIENT: 221 2.0.0 Bye
  Connection: closed
  Message completed successfully.

But when sending to lucsaffre@hot.ee I get the following answer::

  Resolving hostname...
  Connecting...
  Connection: opening to hot.ee:25, timeout=300, options=array (
        	         )
  SMTP ERROR: Failed to connect to server: Connection refused (111)
  2019-12-11 09:35:16	SMTP connect() failed. https://github.com/PHPMailer/PHPMailer/wiki/Troubleshooting
  Message sending failed.

But then. Testing LF on `mxtoolbox.com
<https://mxtoolbox.com/SuperTool.aspx?action=smtp%3alino-framework.org&run=toolpage>`__
told me "Reverse DNS is not a Valid Hostname".  More precisely "Your Reverse DNS
Record (PTR) is not a valid host name. According to email sending best
practices, a PTR Record should be a valid host name. If the PTR Record is not a
valid hostname, there is a likelihood that you will experience email delivery
issues with anti-spam services.""

Finally I have a way to reproduce the problem!  Thanks, mxtoolbox :-)

The problem disappeared on mxtoolbox when I changed the reverse DNS name for my
IP address from  ``lino-framework.org.`` to ``mail.lino-framework.org.``

While it works now on mxtoolbox, I am now getting the following answer from ``mx1.hot.ee`` ::

  Dec 11 12:48:23 vps-ssd-1-sbg1 postfix/smtp[9360]: 118557D24: to=<xxx@hot.ee>,
  relay=mx1.hot.ee[194.126.101.119]:25, delay=6.4, delays=0.69/0.06/5.4/0.18,
  dsn=4.3.2, status=deferred (host mx1.hot.ee[194.126.101.119] said: 450 4.3.2
  Service currently unavailable (in reply to RCPT TO command))

Maybe their postscreen has blacklisted my server? I asked Telia to verify.
