:date: 2019-12-12

===========================
Thursday, December 12, 2019
===========================

Both the Belgian and Estonian VAT declarations have a double field for the
"final result", i.e. the sum of all amounts to pay or to receive. I guess that
they want to have a clear visual difference between a negative and a positive
results. Understandable.

TIL : But in Lino we are not going to waste two separate database fields for
this.  It's too easy to add this condition in the template for the printable or
the XML file. A positive number means "positive" for the VAT office because they
will get money from us. When using :mod:`lino_xl.lib.bevats` you will never ask
to return VAT, so the number in that field will always be positive.

Learning about mail servers
===========================

I am manually checking the :xfile:`/etc/postfix/main.cf` file on SR and LF.

- `mydomain` was wrong. It was set to "mail.lino-framework.org" but must be
  "lino-framework.org".

- mydestination had duplicate entries.

- I removed "compatibility_level=2"

- mydestination = $myhostname localhost.$mydomain localhost $mydomain

  Until now this was repeated manually instead of using the variables, and it
  had commas as separators. EDIT: seems that the commas come from the default
  installation. That's different from the docs, but I guess postfix ignores
  them.


Here are now our standard config settings::

  myhostname = mail.example.com
  myorigin = /etc/mailname
  mydestination = $myhostname localhost.$mydomain localhost $mydomain
  relayhost =
  mynetworks = 127.0.0.0/8 [::ffff:127.0.0.0]/104 [::1]/128
  mynetworks_style = host
  relay_domains =
  inet_interfaces = all


Here is what status should say::

  $ sudo service postfix status
  ● postfix.service - Postfix Mail Transport Agent
     Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/postfix.service; enabled; vendor preset: enabled)
     Active: active (exited) since Thu 2019-12-12 12:01:59 UTC; 7s ago
    Process: 2262 ExecStart=/bin/true (code=exited, status=0/SUCCESS)
   Main PID: 2262 (code=exited, status=0/SUCCESS)

  Dec 12 12:01:59 my-host-name systemd[1]: Starting Postfix Mail Transport Agent...
  Dec 12 12:01:59 my-host-name systemd[1]: Started Postfix Mail Transport Agent.
