:date: 2019-12-15

=========================
Sunday, December 15, 2019
=========================

I inserted FQDN and HOSTNAME instead of their real values::

  $ sudo apt update
  ...
  73 packages can be upgraded. Run 'apt list --upgradable' to see them.
  N: Repository 'https://mirrors.gandi.net/debian buster InRelease' changed its 'Version' value from '10.1' to '10.2'

  $ sudo apt upgrade

  $ sudo apt install postfix
  ...
  Suggested packages:
    procmail postfix-mysql postfix-pgsql postfix-ldap postfix-pcre postfix-lmdb postfix-sqlite sasl2-bin | dovecot-common libsasl2-modules | dovecot-common resolvconf postfix-cdb mail-reader ufw postfix-doc
    openssl-blacklist
  The following NEW packages will be installed:
    postfix ssl-cert
  ...
  Not creating home directory `/var/spool/postfix'.
  Creating /etc/postfix/dynamicmaps.cf
  Adding group `postdrop' (GID 114) ...
  Done.
  setting myhostname: HOSTNAME
  setting alias maps
  setting alias database
  changing /etc/mailname to FQDN
  setting myorigin
  setting destinations: $myhostname, FQDN, HOSTNAME, localhost.localdomain, localhost
  setting relayhost:
  setting mynetworks: 127.0.0.0/8 [::ffff:127.0.0.0]/104 [::1]/128
  setting mailbox_size_limit: 0
  setting recipient_delimiter: +
  setting inet_interfaces: all
  setting inet_protocols: all
  /etc/aliases does not exist, creating it.
  WARNING: /etc/aliases exists, but does not have a root alias.

  Postfix (main.cf) is now set up with a default configuration.  If you need to
  make changes, edit /etc/postfix/main.cf (and others) as needed.  To view
  Postfix configuration values, see postconf(1).

  After modifying main.cf, be sure to run 'service postfix reload'.

  Running newaliases
  Created symlink /etc/systemd/system/multi-user.target.wants/postfix.service → /lib/systemd/system/postfix.service.


Install monit on Debian Buster::

  $ wget http://ftp.fr.debian.org/debian/pool/main/m/monit/monit_5.26.0-3_amd64.deb
  ...
  $ sudo dpkg --install monit_5.26.0-3_amd64.deb
  Selecting previously unselected package monit.
  (Reading database ... 58629 files and directories currently installed.)
  Preparing to unpack monit_5.26.0-3_amd64.deb ...
  Unpacking monit (1:5.26.0-3) ...
  dpkg: dependency problems prevent configuration of monit:
   monit depends on libcrypt1 (>= 1:4.1.0); however:
    Package libcrypt1 is not installed.

  dpkg: error processing package monit (--install):
   dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
  Processing triggers for systemd (241-7~deb10u2) ...
  Processing triggers for man-db (2.8.5-2) ...
  Errors were encountered while processing:
   monit

  $ sudo apt install libcrypt1
  Reading package lists... Done
  Building dependency tree
  Reading state information... Done
  Package libcrypt1 is not available, but is referred to by another package.
  This may mean that the package is missing, has been obsoleted, or
  is only available from another source

  E: Package 'libcrypt1' has no installation candidate

Maybe it is easier to wait until monit has made it into stable. When can I
expect this to happen?  Maybe soon, because some days ago it has been accepted
to unstable:

 [2019-12-12] Accepted monit 1:5.26.0-3 (source) into unstable (Sergey B Kirpichev)

 (seen on https://tracker.debian.org/pkg/monit)
