:date: 2019-12-18

============================
Wednesday, December 18, 2019
============================

Although Tonis promised to work on :ticket:`3339` today, the question "Should
we run our own mail server or not?" didn't let me sleep. After reading `4
Reasons to Run Your Own Email Server
<https://danielmiessler.com/blog/4-reasons-run-email-server/>`__ I still thought
"Let's learn how to do it", but then I read `Configure Postfix to Send Mail
Using an External SMTP Server
<https://www.linode.com/docs/email/postfix/postfix-smtp-debian7/>`__
and decided to try this way as next step.

The `libsasl2-modules` package was already installed.
Changed `myhostname` from `mail.saffre-rumma.net` to simply `saffre-rumma.net`.
Otherwise just as in the linode docs::

 sudo nano /etc/postfix/sasl_passwd
 sudo postmap /etc/postfix/sasl_passwd
 sudo chown root:root /etc/postfix/sasl_passwd /etc/postfix/sasl_passwd.db
 sudo chmod 0600 /etc/postfix/sasl_passwd /etc/postfix/sasl_passwd.db
 sudo nano /etc/postfix/main.cf
 ll /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt
 sudo service postfix restart
 sudo service postfix status



I opened :ticket:`3412` and worked on it.   To make the problem more visible I
added a fixture :fixture:`demo2` for :mod:`lino_xl.lib.lists`, which adds a list
membership for every partner. In :ref:`amici` we now have a detail window for
partners as well.  This seems an easy and reasonable solution for the main
problem.  
The :class:`lino_xl.lib.lists.MembersByList` table has two new
(virtual) columns "Address" and "Contact details".
:class:`lino_xl.lib.lists.MembersByPartner` is now in summary display mode, and
list memberships now have a detail window.
