:date: 2024-04-24

=========================
Wednesday, April 24, 2024
=========================

:ticket:`5570` (Jane doesn't send email notifications) is not trivial. It was
(of course) caused by my changes in the :term:`background task runner`. I am
really still too naive regarding asynchronous programming!

Should we add test coverage for asynchronous operations.  A unit test case in
noi1r that creates a :xfile:`log` directory (in order to activate the socket
logger), launches a :cmd:`pm linod` process and some :term:`django-admin
command` and then checks the content of the :xfile:`lino.log` file...

Here is an excerpt from :mod:`lino_xl.lib.invoicing.models`::


  class Task(Runnable, UserAuthored):

      target_journal = dd.ForeignKey(
          'ledger.Journal',
          verbose_name=_("Target journal"),
          related_name="invoicing_task_targets")

      def __str__(self):
          return _("Make {}").format(self.target_journal)

  class Runnable(Sequenced, RecurrenceSet):

      async def start_task(self, ar):
          ...

Arguments: (Unprintable Task(pk=1,error=SynchronousOnlyOperation('You cannot
call this from an async context - use a thread or sync_to_async.'),)

Do we really need the asynchronous versions of
:meth:`ar.debug <lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.debug>`,
:meth:`ar.info <lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.info>` and
:meth:`ar.warning <lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.warning>`?

Edit 20240426: Yes we do. Because these methods potentially lead to I/O
operations. When calling them from an async context, code execution would
potentially continue before they have done their work. I tried to reproduce the
problem but without success. Maybe the problem exists only with Django?

.. literalinclude:: 20240426.py

"If you want to call a part of Django that is still synchronous, you will need
to wrap it in a sync_to_async() call. If you accidentally try to call a part of
Django that is synchronous-only from an async view, you will trigger Django’s
asynchronous safety protection to protect your data from corruption."

"Transactions do not yet work in async mode. If you have a piece of code that
needs transactions behavior, we recommend you write that piece as a single
synchronous function and call it using sync_to_async()."

- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/45842926/python-asynchronous-logging
- https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/async/
- https://discuss.python.org/t/support-async-logging-module/50130
