:date: 2024-05-30
:tags: alvatal estonia foss

===================================
Alvatal moved from GitHub to GitLab
===================================

Thursday, May 30, 2024

The `alvatal.ee <https://www.alvatal.ee>`__ website is now hosted on GitLab.

Alvatal, short for "Estonian Free and Open-Source Software Association" is a
non-profit umbrella organization for Estonian open-source and free software
initiatives.

Alvatal is led by `Edmund Laugasson <https://edmund.laugasson.net/>`__ who
dedicated many years of his life as full-time activist helping deciders to opt
for FOSS and companies to offer professional services.

The website is made using `Jekyll <https://jekyllrb.com/>`__.
Lauri Võsandi created it in December 2014 and maintained it until
September 2016 (`initial commit
<https://github.com/alvatal/alvatal.github.io/commit/a61aaa7d73b0fa8ae759a08d48ef937a78468985>`__).

- Website: https://www.alvatal.ee
- Project page on GitLab: https://gitlab.com/alvatal/www


At least one problem is still open: the present blog post does not appear in the
`news section <https://www.alvatal.ee/en/news/>`__ even though I added my blog
to the `planet_en.yml
<https://gitlab.com/alvatal/www/-/blob/master/planet_en.yml?ref_type=heads>`__
file and GitLab `reports
<https://gitlab.com/alvatal/www/-/jobs/6981067570#L1034>`__ "Parsing
https://luc.lino-framework.org/rss.xml". But planet then ignores all blog posts,
even this one, which starts with "Alvatal" (the keyword defined in
`whitelisted_tags`).

I converted my Sphinx newsfeed generator (`sphinxfeed
<https://github.com/lsaffre/sphinxfeed>`__) to generate `ATOM
<https://validator.w3.org/feed/docs/atom.html>`__ instead of RSS (a task for
which I had to read the docs and the code of `feedgen
<https://feedgen.kiesow.be/>`__), but that too didn't fix the issue.

Right now i do not know any further...


2024-06-01
==========

I guess that RSS or ATOM has some concept of tags, and sphinxfeed doesn't create
such tags. I now checked the xml files of the two blog entries that get
selected, and indeed the atom.xml file of one of the selected blog posts has a
following ``<category>`` element::

  <feed	xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom' ...>
    ...
  	<entry>
    <category scheme="http://www.blogger.com/atom/ns#" term="alvatal"/>
		<title type='text'>alvatal.ee lehel hakkas tööle HTTPS-protokoll</title>


So I extended `sphinxfeed <https://github.com/lsaffre/sphinxfeed>`__ to look for
two new fields ``category`` and ``tags`` in the ``metadata`` of the page. If it
does, sphinxfeed now uses the `feedgen.FeedEntry.category()
<https://feedgen.kiesow.be/api.entry.html#feedgen.entry.FeedEntry.category>`__
method to add ``<category>`` elements to the feed item.

The difference between ``category`` and ``tags`` is that  the ``category`` of a
blog post may contain spaces while the ``tags`` metadata field is itself a
space-separated list of tags, so each tag must be a single word. Both the
category and each tag will become a ``<category>`` element in the feed.

One feed entry can have multiple ``<category>`` elements (according to the `ATOM
specification <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4287#section-4.1.2>`__),
but Sphinx ``metadata`` is designed to have a field at most once per page.

The `rss.xml file of my blog <https://luc.lino-framework.org/rss.xml>`__ now
declares three "categories" for this entry::

  <entry>
  <id>https://luc.lino-framework.org/blog/2024/0530.html</id>
  <title>Alvatal moved from GitHub to GitLab</title>
  <updated>2024-06-01T07:05:14.936148+00:00</updated>
  <content>...</content>
  <link href="https://luc.lino-framework.org/blog/2024/0530.html"/>
  <category term="alvatal"/>
  <category term="estonia"/>
  <category term="foss"/>
  <published>2024-05-30T23:59:00+00:00</published>
  </entry>

And yes! After restarting the `pipeline on GitLab
<https://gitlab.com/alvatal/www/-/pipelines>`__, here finally Alvatal also lists
my blog entry:
https://alvatal.ee/blogs_en/2024/05/30/alvatal-moved-from-github-to-gitlab/

What's the difference between a "category" and a "tag"? WordPress as a leading
free blogging software can be considered an authority for answering this
question:

- "WordPress lets you put a post into multiple categories. (...) It's possible
  that having your post in multiple categories could cause some SEO issues due
  to duplicate content. If you do use multiple categories, then try to avoid
  putting one post into two or more main (parent) categories. Each post should
  fit within one main category."

- "WordPress itself doesn't have any limit on the number of tags you can have on
  each post. ()...) We suggest that you normally stick to a maximum of 10 tags
  per post."

(Excerpt from `Categories vs Tags – SEO Best Practices for Sorting Your Content
<https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/categories-vs-tags-seo-best-practices-which-one-is-better/>`__.
