:date: 2024-06-08

======================
Saturday, June 8, 2024
======================

Today I had a video meeting with Hamza who gave me quick intro to the PoS module
of Odoo. Oh yes, there is *so* much work to do in Lino! Most people might loose
courage! But the answer is clear: Odoo is no free software, so it makes no sense
to compare. It doesn't even qualify as a candidate.

It's sad to think that Odoo was free in its beginnings. Yes, as long as we don't
make sure that our software is *forever* free, sooner or later it will get
jeopardized into a proprietary product because :term:`greedy giants <greedy
giant>` have more power than those who care for everybody.

There is Tryton. I had another quick look at it. It seems to do well and they
obviously have a better sales team than Lino. But my statement on this is the
same as six years ago: We do Lino because *we don't believe that Tryton can
replace Lino.* Tryton is just a big application with plugins while Lino is a
framework.  Lino has some unique features and ways of doing things, which differ
from Tryton, and I guess (but didn't verify) that I wouldn't be satisfied with
other approaches. We know that we don't *know* it, we just believe it. It would
take months of research work to prove this. In case you don't believe me, try to
configure a Tryton site in a way that it has a chance to replace a :ref:`Lino
Presto <presto>` or any other production Lino application of your choice. If you
succeed, you might get me and the whole Lino team join the Tryton project
(excerpts from `2018-12-11
<https://luc.lino-framework.org/blog/2018/1211.html>`__ and
:file:`book/docs/tickets/51.rst`)

After these lamentations I had another look at our public demo page and the
documentation about Noi and Così, and I updated the following pages:

- https://www.lino-framework.org/demos.html
- https://using.lino-framework.org/apps/noi
- https://dev.lino-framework.org/apps.html#noi
- https://using.lino-framework.org/apps/cosi/
- https://dev.lino-framework.org/apps.html#cosi

No, it's not finished (it will never be finished ;-) but it got again a bit
better.
