:date: 2024-06-21

=====================
Friday, June 21, 2024
=====================

Today I fixed about 6 bugs and documentation issues. None of them were
revolutionary.

.. contents::
   :depth: 1
   :local:


getlino failed when no ``www-data`` group exists
================================================

Joy reported that :ref:`getlino` breaks in a :term:`developer environment` when
no user group ``www-data`` exists. So I made it more resistant:
:meth:`getlino.utils.Installer.check_permissions` no longer tries to change the
group owner of the file to ``www-data`` when no such group exists. More
precisely ``www-data`` is the group name specified in :envvar:`usergroup`. The
user group is needed only on a :term:`production site` with a
:envvar:`web-server`.

>>> from getlino.utils import grpexists
>>> help(grpexists)
Help on function grpexists in module getlino.utils:
<BLANKLINE>
grpexists(name)
    Check whether the user group with the given ``name`` exists.
<BLANKLINE>

>>> grpexists("foo")
False
>>> grpexists("luc")
True
>>> grpexists("www-data")
True

Cannot edit "today" date of a user plan
=======================================

.. currentmodule:: lino.modlib.users

The :attr:`today <UserPlan.today>` field of a :class:`UserPlan` is no longer
read-only (`editable=False`) because Lino no longer automatically sets it each
time you open your :term:`invoicing plan`. When you start an invoicing plan
today and finish it tomorrow, you might not want Lino to update that field, e.g.
because you want all generated documents on the same date. But if you started a
service report three weeks ago, got interrupted and now continue, you want to
have the real date in this field.

#5671 (bad argument type: __proxy__([some heading of a dashboard item]))
========================================================================

I have seen this error before. Here is how to get this error message:

>>> from lino import startup
>>> startup("lino_book.projects.min2.settings")
>>> from lino.api import _
>>> from lino.utils.html import E
>>> E.h2(_("Foo"))
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/lib/python3.10/doctest.py", line 1350, in __run
    exec(compile(example.source, filename, "single",
  File "<doctest 0621.rst[9]>", line 1, in <module>
    E.h2(_("Foo"))
  File "src/lxml/builder.py", line 219, in lxml.builder.ElementMaker.__call__
TypeError: bad argument type: __proxy__('Foo')


I am quite sure it is caused by my recent changes with safetext and elementtree.
But I don't see how to reproduce it.

And I guess that it is caused by
:meth:`lino.core.elems.DisplayElement.value2html`, which is indeed a strange
piece of code.

I cleaned up the code and changed the call to ``logger.error()``
into ``logger.exception()``


#5672 (A sales invoice must DEBIT the account but CREDIT the storage)
=====================================================================

The reason for this ticket was actually just a configuration problem in Jane.

The title of this ticket is NOT a problem. Whether the storage (more exactly the
:term:`provision`) gets debited or credited depends on the
:class:`lino_xl.lib.storage.TransferRule`.

.. currentmodule:: lino_xl.lib.accounting

In :mod:`lino_xl.lib.accounting` :class:`DcAmountField` now uses
:meth:`DC.normalized_amount` rather than the hard-coded meaning of debit and
credit.

"A sales invoice debits the customer’s account" (as explained `in the end-user
docs
<https://using.lino-framework.org/plugins/accounting.html#debit-and-credit>`__),
but the :guilabel:`Primary booking direction` field of a :class:`Journal`
:attr:`Journal.dc` field says "Credit" for sales invoices. I tried whether I can
optimize this.



#5673 (Internal Server Error: /api/invoicing/MyPlan/row)
========================================================

:meth:`invoicing.MyPlan.get_row_by_pk` does not check for permissions because
that's done later during the request, but accesses the database using current
user as argument, which fails when the authentication info has been cleared for
some reason, causing current user to be an :class:`AnonymousUser` instance.
Django then says :message:`Field 'id' expected a number but got
<SimpleLazyObject: <lino.core.auth.utils.AnonymousUser object at
0x7f9e52076d90>>`.


Multiple invoicing tasks and help_text
======================================

When a site has multiple invoicing tasks, Lino adds one "Start invoicing" action
for each of them to the :term:`partner` model and to the `invoicing order`
model. These buttons have the same icon (a shopping basket), but now they have
at least different help texts.
