:date: 2024-07-17

========================
Wednesday, July 17, 2024
========================

We are worried about Sharif. He left his home on June 28 to visit a friend, but
since then he has vanished, his mobile phone is not reachable. His sister and
his wife filed a missing person report at the police. I still hope that he had
just a psycholigical crisis or problems with his wife (they married only 1 year
ago) and doesn't dare to speak about it. That would be a strange behaviour, but
I'd prefer such an explanation over hearing that they found his motorcycle and
his body somewhere in the jungle.

We are in the third week without Sharif, I start to imagine the worst case: that
I must learn how to build the React front end. Until now I had successfully
avoided the dirty details of Node, npm, React and webpack because Sharif was
better than me with this part of Lino development.

Even when we assume that Sharif will soon come back, it's a good thing that I am
forced to do his job for some time. I started to read and review
:ref:`react.npm`.

Of course my npm environment needs a upgrade::

  $ npm -v
  8.5.1
  $ node -v
  v12.22.9

  $ sudo npm install -g n
  [sudo] password for luc:

  added 1 package, and audited 2 packages in 560ms

  found 0 vulnerabilities

  $ sudo n stable
    installing : node-v20.15.1
         mkdir : /usr/local/n/versions/node/20.15.1
         fetch : https://nodejs.org/dist/v20.15.1/node-v20.15.1-linux-x64.tar.xz
       copying : node/20.15.1
     installed : v20.15.1 (with npm 10.7.0)

  Note: the node command changed location and the old location may be remembered in your current shell.
           old : /usr/bin/node
           new : /usr/local/bin/node
  If "node --version" shows the old version then start a new shell, or reset the location hash with:
  hash -r  (for bash, zsh, ash, dash, and ksh)
  rehash   (for csh and tcsh)

  $ npm -v
  10.7.0
  $ node -v
  v20.15.1

I also did the following (don't ask me why)::

  $ sudo npm upgrade -g react

Let's try::

  $ npm run build

  > lino_react@24.5.0 build
  > NODE_OPTIONS='--max-old-space-size=8192' webpack --mode production

  [webpack-cli] Failed to load '/home/luc/work/react/webpack.config.js' config
  [webpack-cli] Error: Cannot find module 'html-webpack-plugin'
  Require stack:
  - /home/luc/work/react/webpack.config.js
  - /home/luc/work/react/node_modules/webpack-cli/lib/webpack-cli.js
  - /home/luc/work/react/node_modules/webpack-cli/lib/bootstrap.js
  - /home/luc/work/react/node_modules/webpack-cli/bin/cli.js
  - /home/luc/work/react/node_modules/webpack/bin/webpack.js
      at Module._resolveFilename (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1145:15)
      at Module._load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:986:27)
      at Module.require (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1233:19)
      at require (/home/luc/work/react/node_modules/v8-compile-cache/v8-compile-cache.js:159:20)
      at Object.<anonymous> (/home/luc/work/react/webpack.config.js:2:27)
      at Module._compile (/home/luc/work/react/node_modules/v8-compile-cache/v8-compile-cache.js:192:30)
      at Module._extensions..js (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1416:10)
      at Module.load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1208:32)
      at Module._load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1024:12)
      at Module.require (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1233:19) {
    code: 'MODULE_NOT_FOUND',
    requireStack: [
      '/home/luc/work/react/webpack.config.js',
      '/home/luc/work/react/node_modules/webpack-cli/lib/webpack-cli.js',
      '/home/luc/work/react/node_modules/webpack-cli/lib/bootstrap.js',
      '/home/luc/work/react/node_modules/webpack-cli/bin/cli.js',
      '/home/luc/work/react/node_modules/webpack/bin/webpack.js'
    ]
  }

The message "Cannot find module 'html-webpack-plugin'" makes me try the
following::

  $ sudo npm install -g html-webpack-plugin

  added 44 packages in 2s

  10 packages are looking for funding
    run `npm fund` for details

I am not sure about whether the difference between "sudo npm install -g" and
"npm install" is important.

This story continues on :doc:`0720`.
