:date: 2024-07-20

=======================
Saturday, July 20, 2024
=======================

Continued from :doc:`0717`.

Here is my current problem when I try to run ``npm run build``::

  (dev) luc@yoga:~/work/react$ npm run build

  > lino_react@24.5.0 build
  > NODE_OPTIONS='--max-old-space-size=8192' webpack --mode production

  assets by status 3.82 MiB [cached] 50 assets
  Entrypoint main = main.runtime.430b48360e2c8f3437a2.js main.30cfd4b61f5cb674be23.js 2 auxiliary assets
  orphan modules 438 KiB [orphan] 58 modules
  runtime modules 12.1 KiB 14 modules
  modules by path ./node_modules/ 4.48 MiB (javascript) 241 KiB (asset)
    javascript modules 4.48 MiB 165 modules
    asset modules 210 bytes (javascript) 241 KiB (asset)
      ./node_modules/primeicons/fonts/primeicons.eot 42 bytes (javascript) 70.7 KiB (asset) [built] [code generated]
      ./node_modules/primeicons/fonts/primeicons.woff2 42 bytes (javascript) 29.5 KiB (asset) [built] [code generated]
      + 3 modules
  modules by path ./lino_react/react/ 494 KiB 38 modules
  modules by mime type image/png 357 bytes
    data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAAN.. 179 bytes [built] [code generated]
    data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAAN.. 178 bytes [built] [code generated]

  LOG from InjectManifest
  <i> The service worker at ../../config/react/service-worker.js will precache
  <i>         0 URLs, totaling 0 B.

  ERROR in ./lino_react/react/components/App.jsx 11:7-72
  Module not found: Error: Can't resolve 'react-dom/client' in '/home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components'
  Did you miss the leading dot in 'resolve.extensions'? Did you mean '[".tsx",".js",".json",".html",".ts",".jsx",".css",".mjs",".bmp",".gif",".jpg",".jpeg",".png",".woff",".woff2",".eot",".ttf",".otf"]' instead of '[".tsx",".js",".json",".html",".ts",".jsx",".css",".mjs",".bmp",".gif",".jpg",".jpeg",".png","woff","woff2","eot","ttf","otf"]'?
   @ ./lino_react/react/index.js 1:0-42 2:0-6

  ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts
  7:7-17
  [tsl] ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts(7,8)
        TS2339: Property 'SERVER_URL' does not exist on type 'Global & typeof globalThis'.

  ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts
  8:7-19
  [tsl] ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts(8,8)
        TS2339: Property 'WAIT_TIMEOUT' does not exist on type 'Global & typeof globalThis'.

  ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts
  10:7-17
  [tsl] ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts(10,8)
        TS2339: Property 'waitToMeet' does not exist on type 'Global & typeof globalThis'.

  ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts
  12:44-56
  [tsl] ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts(12,45)
        TS2339: Property 'WAIT_TIMEOUT' does not exist on type 'Global & typeof globalThis'.

  ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts
  21:7-11
  [tsl] ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts(21,8)
        TS2339: Property 'wait' does not exist on type 'Global & typeof globalThis'.

  ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts
  23:21-31
  [tsl] ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts(23,22)
        TS2339: Property 'waitToMeet' does not exist on type 'Global & typeof globalThis'.

  ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts
  29:21-25
  [tsl] ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts(29,22)
        TS2339: Property 'wait' does not exist on type 'Global & typeof globalThis'.

  ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts
  30:21-31
  [tsl] ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts(30,22)
        TS2339: Property 'waitToMeet' does not exist on type 'Global & typeof globalThis'.

  ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts
  35:7-13
  [tsl] ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts(35,8)
        TS2339: Property 'signIn' does not exist on type 'Global & typeof globalThis'.

  ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts
  36:17-21
  [tsl] ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts(36,18)
        TS2339: Property 'wait' does not exist on type 'Global & typeof globalThis'.

  ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts
  38:17-27
  [tsl] ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts(38,18)
        TS2339: Property 'waitToMeet' does not exist on type 'Global & typeof globalThis'.

  ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts
  54:17-27
  [tsl] ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts(54,18)
        TS2339: Property 'waitToMeet' does not exist on type 'Global & typeof globalThis'.

  ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts
  61:17-21
  [tsl] ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts(61,18)
        TS2339: Property 'wait' does not exist on type 'Global & typeof globalThis'.

  ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/__tests__/cloneUI.ts
  14:31-41
  [tsl] ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/__tests__/cloneUI.ts(14,32)
        TS2339: Property 'SERVER_URL' does not exist on type 'Global & typeof globalThis'.

  ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/__tests__/cloneUI.ts
  15:21-27
  [tsl] ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/__tests__/cloneUI.ts(15,22)
        TS2339: Property 'signIn' does not exist on type 'Global & typeof globalThis'.

  ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/__tests__/cloneUI.ts
  19:21-25
  [tsl] ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/__tests__/cloneUI.ts(19,22)
        TS2339: Property 'wait' does not exist on type 'Global & typeof globalThis'.

  ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/__tests__/cloneUI.ts
  20:21-31
  [tsl] ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/__tests__/cloneUI.ts(20,22)
        TS2339: Property 'waitToMeet' does not exist on type 'Global & typeof globalThis'.

  ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/__tests__/cloneUI.ts
  35:21-31
  [tsl] ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/__tests__/cloneUI.ts(35,22)
        TS2339: Property 'waitToMeet' does not exist on type 'Global & typeof globalThis'.

  ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/__tests__/integrity.ts
  14:31-41
  [tsl] ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/__tests__/integrity.ts(14,32)
        TS2339: Property 'SERVER_URL' does not exist on type 'Global & typeof globalThis'.

  ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/__tests__/integrity.ts
  18:31-41
  [tsl] ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/__tests__/integrity.ts(18,32)
        TS2339: Property 'SERVER_URL' does not exist on type 'Global & typeof globalThis'.

  ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/__tests__/integrity.ts
  19:21-27
  [tsl] ERROR in /home/luc/work/react/lino_react/react/components/__tests__/integrity.ts(19,22)
        TS2339: Property 'signIn' does not exist on type 'Global & typeof globalThis'.

  22 errors have detailed information that is not shown.
  Use 'stats.errorDetails: true' resp. '--stats-error-details' to show it.

  webpack 5.93.0 compiled with 22 errors in 15425 ms


The message "Did you mean
'[".tsx",".js",".json",".html",".ts",".jsx",".css",".mjs",".bmp",".gif",".jpg",".jpeg",".png",".woff",".woff2",".eot",".ttf",".otf"]'
instead of
'[".tsx",".js",".json",".html",".ts",".jsx",".css",".mjs",".bmp",".gif",".jpg",".jpeg",".png","woff","woff2","eot","ttf","otf"]'?"
made me change the :xfile:`webpack.config.js` file where indeed the last five
extensions didn't start with a dot. Seems that this was just an irrelevant
warning.

The :xfile:`packages.json` talks much about "electron". What's that? Google gave
me https://www.electron.build/ and I tried to install it::

  yarn add electron-builder --dev

Lots of output, here are some chunks::

  ! Corepack is about to download https://registry.yarnpkg.com/yarn/-/yarn-1.22.22.tgz
  ? Do you want to continue? [Y/n] Y

  ! The local project doesn't define a 'packageManager' field. Corepack will now add one referencing yarn@1.22.22+sha512.a6b2f7906b721bba3d67d4aff083df04dad64c399707841b7acf00f6b133b7ac24255f2652fa22ae3534329dc6180534e98d17432037ff6fd140556e2bb3137e.
  ! For more details about this field, consult the documentation at https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#packagemanager

  yarn add v1.22.22
  info No lockfile found.
  warning package-lock.json found. Your project contains lock files generated by tools other than Yarn. It is advised not to mix package managers in order to avoid resolution inconsistencies caused by unsynchronized lock files. To clear this warning, remove package-lock.json.
  [1/4] Resolving packages...
  ...

  [3/4] Linking dependencies...
  warning " > autoprefixer@10.4.19" has unmet peer dependency "postcss@^8.1.0".
  warning " > ts-node@10.9.2" has unmet peer dependency "@types/node@*".
  warning "electron-builder > app-builder-lib@24.13.3" has unmet peer dependency "electron-builder-squirrel-windows@24.13.3".
  [4/4] Building fresh packages...
  success Saved lockfile.
  success Saved 885 new dependencies.
  info Direct dependencies
  ├─ @babel/cli@7.24.8
  ├─ @babel/core@7.24.9
  ├─ @babel/plugin-transform-runtime@7.24.7
  ...

  ├─ yauzl@2.10.0
  ├─ yn@3.1.1
  └─ yocto-queue@0.1.0
  Done in 152.53s.

The warning "The local project doesn't define a 'packageManager' field. Corepack
will now add one..."  makes me think that this is probably not the right way. If
Sharif had been using electron builder, the ``packageManager`` field would
already exist. So I removed that field again.

I tried "npm audit fix"::

  $ npm audit fix

  up to date, audited 1831 packages in 2s

  215 packages are looking for funding
    run `npm fund` for details

  # npm audit report

  babel-traverse  *
  Severity: critical
  Babel vulnerable to arbitrary code execution when compiling specifically crafted malicious code - https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-67hx-6x53-jw92
  fix available via `npm audit fix --force`
  Will install babel-plugin-transform-class-properties@6.10.2, which is a breaking change
  node_modules/babel-traverse
    babel-helper-function-name  *
    Depends on vulnerable versions of babel-template
    Depends on vulnerable versions of babel-traverse
    node_modules/babel-helper-function-name
      babel-plugin-transform-class-properties  >=6.11.5
      Depends on vulnerable versions of babel-helper-function-name
      Depends on vulnerable versions of babel-template
      node_modules/babel-plugin-transform-class-properties
    babel-template  *
    Depends on vulnerable versions of babel-traverse
    node_modules/babel-template

  json5  <1.0.2
  Severity: high
  Prototype Pollution in JSON5 via Parse Method - https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-9c47-m6qq-7p4h
  fix available via `npm audit fix --force`
  Will install webpack-typescript@0.5.5, which is a breaking change
  node_modules/loader-utils/node_modules/json5
    loader-utils  <=1.4.0
    Depends on vulnerable versions of json5
    node_modules/loader-utils
      webpack-typescript  >=0.5.6
      Depends on vulnerable versions of loader-utils
      node_modules/webpack-typescript


  quill  <=1.3.7
  Severity: moderate
  Cross-site Scripting in quill - https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-4943-9vgg-gr5r
  fix available via `npm audit fix --force`
  Will install quill@2.0.2, which is a breaking change
  node_modules/quill
    quill-mention  <=4.1.0
    Depends on vulnerable versions of quill
    node_modules/quill-mention

  ws  8.0.0 - 8.17.0
  Severity: high
  ws affected by a DoS when handling a request with many HTTP headers - https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-3h5v-q93c-6h6q
  fix available via `npm audit fix --force`
  Will install puppeteer@22.13.1, which is a breaking change
  node_modules/puppeteer-core/node_modules/ws
    puppeteer-core  11.0.0 - 22.11.1
    Depends on vulnerable versions of ws
    node_modules/puppeteer-core
      puppeteer  18.2.0 - 22.11.1
      Depends on vulnerable versions of puppeteer-core
      node_modules/puppeteer

  12 vulnerabilities (2 moderate, 4 high, 6 critical)

  To address all issues (including breaking changes), run:
    npm audit fix --force

I ran "npm audit fix --force" several times, the first time it gave a lot of
output similar to above, but after two or three runs it got kind of satisfied::

  $ npm audit fix --force
  npm warn using --force Recommended protections disabled.
  npm warn audit Updating babel-plugin-transform-class-properties to 6.10.2, which is a SemVer major change.

  removed 20 packages, changed 2 packages, and audited 1796 packages in 3s

  215 packages are looking for funding
    run `npm fund` for details

  found 0 vulnerabilities

  $ npm audit fix --force
  npm warn using --force Recommended protections disabled.

  up to date, audited 1796 packages in 2s

  215 packages are looking for funding
    run `npm fund` for details

  found 0 vulnerabilities

I wondered whether it is maybe actually working. The only errors are in
:file:`lino_react/react/components/setupTests.ts`, it's possible that that they
aren't important.   Sharif started to experiment with testing frameworks only
recently.

But no. Because the files under :file: `lino_react/react/static` haven't
changed. I also made a minor change to one source file and
(:file:`LinoToolbar.jsx`), ran ``npm run build`` again: still no change in the
static directory. So it's sure that I need to also get rid of the remaining
error messages.

The story continues on :doc:`0729`.
