:date: 2024-08-02

======================
Sharif, where are you?
======================

Friday, August 2, 2024

The Lino community is currently worried about :ref:`Sharif <sharif>`, who has
been our second :term:`core developer` since February 2021, for more than 3.5
years.

On Friday 2024-06-28 he left his home by motorcycle to visit a friend, and since
then his cell phone is switched off. His family filed a missing person report at
the police.

N.B. I am pretty sure that Sharif's disappearing has nothing to do with the
political tensions in Bangladesh (see the news, e.g. `Bangladesh bans
Jamaat-e-Islami party following violent protests that left more than 200 dead
<https://abcnews.go.com/International/wireStory/bangladesh-bans-jamaat-islami-party-violent-protests-left-112468645>`__).

We hope that he had just a psychological crisis and decided to
escape from everyday life. He is indeed an introvert person with tendencies to
melancholy. It seems that people have seen him in Dhaka (the capital, quite far
away from his home) and since then his family are angry with him because
disappearing without explanations is obviously not a nice behaviour.

I have no contact with him. I know about all this only from chats with his wife,
his sister and some friends. The last times he registered work sessions in Jane
was 2024-06-22 (0:30 hours), 2024-06-21 (0:30 h) and 2024-06-16 (3:30 h).

Q: Are you having any problem without Sharif? Who does his work now?

A: Oh yes I am having problems without him! He did the :term:`React front end`
of Lino, using `npm` and `webpack` and such tools, and now I need to discover
these tools. Fortunately there is no critical issue to fix, so I can take it
calmly.  My biggest problem is psychological: I am still under shock, mentally
paralyzed, because this story endangers my visions about `remote asynchronous
teamwork <https://www.synodalsoft.net/jobs/wg/>`__. Lino is my vocation and at
moments I am tempted to give it up. But I won't do that.

Q: Will he be able to work in your company again if he comes back after a long
time?

A: Depends on *how* long.  Right now it would still be possible.  He owes us
more than 5 weeks of work. So if he reappears, he will have to work some time
before we pay him new money! I don't plan to engage anybody else. But of course
I don't know the future.

I hope that he will soon reappear and give explanations, that his wife will
forgive him and that this whole story turns out as an unpleasant adventure with
a good end, Inshallah.

If he comes back, we will learn from this and find rules to ensure a minimum of
discipline. It is important that paid workers get enough pressure to work the
agreed number of hours per week.
