:date: 2024-08-07

=========================
Wednesday, August 7, 2024
=========================

I read `npm vs npx — What’s the Difference?
<https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/npm-vs-npx-whats-the-difference/>`__, here
are my reading notes.

:cmd:`npx cowsay Hello` works as described in the tutorial. It says::

   _______
  < Hello >
   -------
          \   ^__^
           \  (oo)\_______
              (__)\       )\/\
                  ||----w |
                  ||     ||


And :cmd:`npx lino-react`, as expected, doesn't work, it says "npm error could
not determine executable to run", which is normal because the :term:`React front
end` is not an executable command-line tool, it is a Python package to be used
as the :attr:`lino.core.site.Site.default_ui`.

The next step in above tutorial is :cmd:`npx create-react-app`::

  $ cd ~/work
  $ npx create-react-app

  Creating a new React app in /home/luc/work/my-app.
  Installing packages. This might take a couple of minutes.
  Installing react, react-dom, and react-scripts with cra-template...
  added 1483 packages in 35s
  261 packages are looking for funding
    run `npm fund` for details
  Installing template dependencies using npm...
  added 54 packages in 3s
  261 packages are looking for funding
    run `npm fund` for details
  Removing template package using npm...
  removed 1 package, and audited 1537 packages in 2s
  261 packages are looking for funding
    run `npm fund` for details
  8 vulnerabilities (2 moderate, 6 high)
  To address all issues (including breaking changes), run:
    npm audit fix --force
  Run `npm audit` for details.
  Success! Created my-app at /home/luc/work/my-app
  Inside that directory, you can run several commands:

    npm start
      Starts the development server.

    npm run build
      Bundles the app into static files for production.

    npm test
      Starts the test runner.

    npm run eject
      Removes this tool and copies build dependencies, configuration files
      and scripts into the app directory. If you do this, you can’t go back!

  We suggest that you begin by typing:

    cd my-app
    npm start

  Happy hacking!

But when I do as instructed, I get an error message::

  $ cd my-app
  $ npm start
  > my-app@0.1.0 start
  > react-scripts start

  Cannot find module 'ajv/dist/compile/codegen'
  Require stack:
  - /home/luc/work/my-app/node_modules/ajv-keywords/dist/definitions/typeof.js
  - /home/luc/work/my-app/node_modules/ajv-keywords/dist/keywords/typeof.js
  - /home/luc/work/my-app/node_modules/ajv-keywords/dist/keywords/index.js
  - /home/luc/work/my-app/node_modules/ajv-keywords/dist/index.js
  - /home/luc/work/my-app/node_modules/schema-utils/dist/validate.js
  - /home/luc/work/my-app/node_modules/schema-utils/dist/index.js
  - /home/luc/work/my-app/node_modules/webpack-dev-server/lib/Server.js
  - /home/luc/work/my-app/node_modules/react-scripts/scripts/start.js

I had to manually say :cmd:`npm install --save-dev ajv` to get it to work. Now
it works::

  Compiled successfully!

  You can now view my-app in the browser.

    Local:            http://localhost:3000
    On Your Network:  http://192.168.1.115:3000

  Note that the development build is not optimized.
  To create a production build, use npm run build.

  webpack compiled successfully

And the browser launches and shows the screen described in the tutorial.

But on the console I see the following warnings::

  One of your dependencies, babel-preset-react-app, is importing the
  "@babel/plugin-proposal-private-property-in-object" package without
  declaring it in its dependencies. This is currently working because
  "@babel/plugin-proposal-private-property-in-object" is already in your
  node_modules folder for unrelated reasons, but it may break at any time.

  babel-preset-react-app is part of the create-react-app project, which
  is not maintianed anymore. It is thus unlikely that this bug will
  ever be fixed. Add "@babel/plugin-proposal-private-property-in-object" to
  your devDependencies to work around this error. This will make this message
  go away.

The ``create-react-app`` project is not maintained any more?! That sounds
strange! Maybe the freecodecamp.org tutorial is obsolete? But also the
"official" `Getting Started
<https://create-react-app.dev/docs/getting-started>`__ page recommends the same
steps.

The ``create-react-app`` project is
`hosted on GitHub <https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app>`__, so
I started to file an issue.
It asks me what type of issue: a bug report.

The issue template recommends to do::

  $ sudo npm install -g npm@latest

Maybe this is the source of all my problems! I ran it, and it said::

  changed 13 packages in 3s
  22 packages are looking for funding
  run `npm fund` for details

But the issue remained the same.

So today I submitted my first issue to the facebook group on GitHub:

  https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app/issues/13643

I ran :cmd:`npm uninstall -g html-webpack-plugin n react-dom typedoc` to remove
everything except corepack and npm from my global environment::

  $ npm ls -g
  /usr/local/lib
  ├── corepack@0.28.1
  └── npm@10.8.2

TODO: The second warning above ("babel-preset-react-app is part of the
create-react-app project, which is not maintianed anymore....") seems to be a
false alert. That might become my second issue. Furthermore it contains a type
"maintianed" instead of "maintained".
