:date: 2024-08-20

========================
Explanation to my riddle
========================

Tuesday, August 20, 2024

I found the explanation to my riddle (:doc:`0817`).

When Sharif built the front end in June,  he had of course an older version of
some dependency.  The :xfile:`package-lock.json` file is not included in the git
repo (because otherwisde we would also have to include the node_modules), but I
hope that webpack somehow writes the list of included dependencies and their
versions somewhere in the distributed output.

No, it seems that there is no such file. I might write it myself by extending
our :cmd:`npm run build` command to say something like "npm ls > ...
versions.txt" when making a build.

So I have to guess. And since the Lino grid view is made using PrimeReact
datatable, let's start with downgrading PrimeReact.

Indeed, according to the `PrimeReact changelog
<https://github.com/primefaces/primereact/releases>`__, 10.6.6 was the latest PR
version on June 17 when Sharif built the React front end that is currently
visible in the repository.

Using :cmd:`npm ls` I can see which version is being used on my machine::

  (dev) luc@yoga:~/work/react$ npm ls
  lino_react@24.5.0 /home/luc/work/react
  ├── @babel/cli@7.24.8
  ...
  ├── primereact@10.8.2
  ...

The difference comes because in the :xfile:`package.json` we have::

  "primereact": "latest",

I changed that line into::

  "primereact": "^10.6.6",

Afterwards I also had to repeat myself, saying::

  npm install primereact@10.6.6

And when I now build the front end, the cell editor is back! So the explanation
is that meanwhile PrimeReact has evolved.

Of course this explanation is not yet a solution for our problem. We are not
going to freeze Lino onto version 10.6.6 of PR, are we? We must rather adapt
Lino to work with the latest PR version.

So the next step is to carefully read the `PrimeReact release notes
<https://github.com/primefaces/primereact/releases>`__ and find out which change
caused things to brake. After reading the release notes quickly, I realize that
this won't be trivial. I need to dive into how we use the PR library.
