:date: 2024-08-29

=========================
Thursday, August 29, 2024
=========================

Continued from :doc:`0828`. Working on :ticket:`4381` (Uploading photos or other
media files via email (postfix)).


Hey, all my yesterday's plans are probably bullshit! It's much more
straightforward to let Postfix deliver all emails to photos locally, as if
photos was a normal user. And all analyzing is done by Lino in the
:term:`background task`. What I don't know yet is how to remove mails from a
mailbox.

https://docs.python.org/3/library/mailbox.html

Yes, it seems like the :mod:`mailbox` module is what we need. And I copy their
warning:

  Be very cautious when modifying mailboxes that might be simultaneously changed
  by some other process. The safest mailbox format to use for such tasks is
  `Maildir`; try to avoid using single-file formats such as `mbox` for
  concurrent writing. If you’re modifying a mailbox, you must lock it by calling
  the lock() and unlock() methods before reading any messages in the file or
  making any changes by adding or deleting a message. Failing to lock the
  mailbox runs the risk of losing messages or corrupting the entire mailbox.

And now I remember that we have the :mod:`lino_xl.lib.inbox` plugin, which also
accesses mailboxes but doesn't write to them. It just looks for incoming emails
that are a reply to an existing :class:`comments.Comment`.

I had a look at the `django-mailbox
<https://django-mailbox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__ plugin. This plugin (they
call it a "Django application") consumes messages from POP3, IMAP, Office365 API
or local mailboxes into a Django database. It defines three database models
``Mailbox``(name, uri, from_email, active, last_polling), ``Message``(mailbox,
subject, message_id, in_reply_to. from_header, to_header, encoded, processed,
read, raw_message_content) and ``MessageAttachment``(message, headers, document)
as well as an django-admin command ``getmail`` and a Django signal
``message_received``.

The value of ``django-mailbox`` is that it provides a few additional transport
classes compared to the standard mailbox package (see `source code
<https://github.com/coddingtonbear/django-mailbox/tree/master/django_mailbox/transports>`__).

But for :ticket:`4381` we don't need ``django-mailbox`` because we don't want to
see the messages themselves. We actually want to avoid moving the messages too
much from one place to another.



Here is a copy of the last version of the :file:`/home/photos/bin/photos.py`
script on SR, which I won't maintain any more::

  import logging; logger = logging.getLogger("photos")
  import sys
  from pathlib import Path
  import email
  import mimetypes
  from email.policy import default
  import datetime
  import getpass

  # store_dir = Path("/var/mail/photos")
  # store_dir = Path("/home/photos")
  store_dir = Path.home()

  allowed_chars = "_-+"
  def saniiyze(filename):
      filename = filename.replace(" ", "_")
      filename = "".join(c for c in filename if c.isalpha() or c.isdigit() or c in allowed_chars).strip()
      return filename


  def main():

      log_file = store_dir / "photos.log"
      print("I am", getpass.getuser(), "writing to", str(log_file))  # "I am photos writing to /home/photos"

      log_file.write_text("hello")

      input_str = "".join(sys.stdin)

      msg = email.message_from_string(input_str, policy=default)
      log_file.write_text("{}\n\n{}\n\n".format(sys.argv, msg))
      now = datetime.datetime.now()
      log_file.write_text("{} Write message from {} to {}.\n".format(now, msg['From'], store_dir))
      # log_file.write_text("Write {} to {}.\n".format(msg, store_dir))
      log_file.write_text("my username: {}".format(getpass.getuser()))

      counter = 1
      for part in msg.walk():
          # multipart/* are just containers
          if part.get_content_maintype() == 'multipart':
              continue
          # Applications should really sanitize the given filename so that an
          # email message can't be used to overwrite important files
          filename = sanitize(part.get_filename())
          if not filename:
              ext = mimetypes.guess_extension(part.get_content_type())
              if ext:
                  filename = f'part-{counter:03d}{ext}'
          counter += 1
          with open(store_dir / filename, 'wb') as fp:
              fp.write(part.get_payload(decode=True))

          #print("Wrote {} parts to {}".format(counter, filename))
      print("Wrote {} parts to {}.".format(counter, store_dir))


  if __name__ == '__main__':
      main()
