:date: 2024-08-31

===========================
Welcome to Joy and Abdullah
===========================

Saturday, August 31, 2024

The Synodalsoft team welcomes two new contributors, Joy and Abdullah. I updated
our list of :ref:`individual contributors <lino.contributors>`.

They come from very different places: Joy lives in Montevideo, 6 hours after
Tallinn time zone, and Abdullah lives in Melbourne, 7 hours before Tallinn. Lino
is extending to the ends of the world ;-)

They joined Synodalsoft at an interesting moment of our history.

When Joy contacted me, on March 4, I was actually in hospital, recovering from
an accident where I broke my hip. This accident forced me to step back from my
social volunteer engagements for the next months. As a religious person I
constantly talk with God (some call it "praying"), so I asked him "What does
that mean? What are you telling me through this?" and he answered in an
unusually clear way: "Luc, it's more than 20 years that you are trying to
explain to church people in Estonia how they should do their work. They don't
want to hear you. Leave them in peace. Your vocation is Lino. Stop wasting your
time with useless things."

Note that "Lino" and "Synodalsoft" are synonym here.  Synodalsoft is the team,
Lino is our flagship product. I registered the synodalsoft.net domain name
because the idea behind Lino is bigger than a single software product.
Synodalsoft is about how software should ideally be developed, it is the name I
suggest for the foundation to create if the project becomes bigger than Rumma &
Ko can handle.

..
  in January 2023, when I realized that
  I was waiting for getting
  my stomach cancer removed.

I had not yet fully recovered from my hip surgery when another frightening
thing happened: :ref:`Sharif <sharif>`, our second :term:`core developer`,
disappeared.  He left his wife to visit a friend, and hasn't answered his phone
since then. This was more than three months ago and we still have no news about
him. (`Details in my blog
<https://luc.lino-framework.org/blog/2024/0802.html>`__.)

During the first weeks I was under shock and considered abandoning Lino if
Sharif doesn't come back.  He had become like a son to me after 3 years of
working together. But despite the catastrophic human aspect of this story,  I
started to realize that Lino continues to live, and that I will continue to
develop it.   Lino has always been developing slowly. Slow development is
actually one of its strengths. For the first time in my life I seriously went
down into the :term:`React front end`. This part of Lino  is quite different
from the rest of Lino, most of it is written in Javascript. It had been written
by Tonis and Hamza, and I never had to get my hands dirty with it. Because
Sharif took over their job and was better than me at it.

Joy and Abdullah will remain volunteer contributors because I don't plan to
build up a third team of paid workers. I am now 56 years old and if you want
Synodalsoft to continue when I will be gone, you can count on my help, but don't
ask me to be the motor.


..
  I currently cannot pay any solid reward for your services, but I hope to see you
  as volunteer contributors. I don't ask more from you than what you want to give.
  Please see Lino as a project that belongs to us all because it is free software.
