:date: 2024-09-20

===========================================
How to install esteid software on Tuxedo OS
===========================================

Friday, September 20, 2024

I want to install the Estonian eid software ("DigiDoc client") on my notebook,
but the install script says::

  $ sh install-open-eid.sh
  tuxedo is not supported

All other Linux software installed nicely on my Tuxedo notebook from
:file:`.deb` packages because `Tuxedo OS is actually just an optimized Ubuntu
<https://www.tuxedocomputers.com/en/Infos/Help-Support/Frequently-asked-questions/What-is-the-differences-between-TUXEDO-OS-and-Ubuntu/Kubuntu-_1.tuxedo>`__.

Here is what I did.

Modify the install script::

  $ nano install-open-eid.sh

Find the place where it says::

  case $distro in
     debian)
        ...
     ubuntu|neon|zorin)
        ...
     linuxmint)

Change the case "ubuntu|neon|zorin)" into::

     ubuntu|neon|zorin|tuxedo)

For normal people this would probably have worked. But I am a Belgian, and this
caused a little problem::

  $ sh install-open-eid.sh
  Adding RIA repository to APT sources list (/etc/apt/sources.list.d/ria-repository.list)
  [sudo] password for luc:
  deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/ria-repository.gpg] https://installer.id.ee/media/ubuntu/ jammy main
  Adding key to trusted key set
  0xC6C83D68 'RIA Software Signing Key <signing@ria.ee>'
  Installing software (apt update && apt install open-eid)
  Hit:1 https://linux.teamviewer.com/deb stable InRelease
  Get:2 https://installer.id.ee/media/ubuntu jammy InRelease
  Get:3 https://installer.id.ee/media/ubuntu jammy/main amd64 Packages [6 094 B]
  Hit:4 http://txos-extra.tuxedocomputers.com/ubuntu jammy InRelease
  Hit:5 https://txos.tuxedocomputers.com/ubuntu jammy InRelease
  Hit:6 https://deb.tuxedocomputers.com/ubuntu jammy InRelease
  Get:7 https://mirrors.tuxedocomputers.com/ubuntu/mirror/archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu jammy InRelease [270 kB]
  Hit:8 https://plasma6.tuxedocomputers.com jammy InRelease
  Hit:9 https://txos.tuxedocomputers.com/ubuntu jammy-plasma InRelease
  Hit:10 https://files.eid.belgium.be/debian jammy InRelease
  Hit:11 https://mirrors.tuxedocomputers.com/ubuntu/mirror/security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu jammy-security InRelease
  Hit:12 https://mirrors.tuxedocomputers.com/ubuntu/mirror/archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu jammy-updates InRelease
  Fetched 279 kB in 1s (200 kB/s)
  Reading package lists... Done
  Building dependency tree... Done
  Reading state information... Done
  All packages are up-to-date.
  Reading package lists... Done
  Building dependency tree... Done
  Reading state information... Done
  Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have
  requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
  distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
  or been moved out of Incoming.
  The following information may help to resolve the situation:

  The following packages have unmet dependencies.
   libbeidpkcs11-0 : Conflicts: opensc-pkcs11 but 0.22.0-1ubuntu2 is to be installed
  E: Error, pkgProblemResolver::Resolve generated breaks, this may be caused by held packages.

It seems that the Belgian eid software conflicts with the Estonian one.
So I uninstalled the Belgian eid software::

  sudo apt remove eid-viewer eid-mw libbeidpkcs11-0
  Reading package lists... Done
  Building dependency tree... Done
  Reading state information... Done
  The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
    libbeidpkcs11-bin libnss3-tools libphonon4qt5-4 libqt5keychain1 libqt5quickwidgets5 libqt5webengine-data libqt5webenginecore5 libqt5webenginewidgets5 libqt5websockets5 libre2-9
    phonon-backend-gstreamer-common phonon4qt5
  Use 'sudo apt autoremove' to remove them.
  The following packages will be REMOVED
    beid-mozilla-extension beid-mozilla-webext libbeidpkcs11-0 libeidviewer0
  0 to upgrade, 0 to newly install, 4 to remove and 0 not to upgrade.
  After this operation, 621 kB disk space will be freed.
  Do you want to continue? [Y/n]
  (Reading database ... 350378 files and directories currently installed.)
  Removing beid-mozilla-extension (5.1.18v5.1.18-0u2204-1) ...
  Removing beid-mozilla-webext (5.1.18v5.1.18-0u2204-1) ...
  Removing libeidviewer0:amd64 (5.1.18v5.1.18-0u2204-1) ...
  Removing libbeidpkcs11-0:amd64 (5.1.18v5.1.18-0u2204-1) ...
  Processing triggers for libc-bin (2.35-0ubuntu3.8) ...

And then try again::

  $ sudo apt install open-eid

Now it worked. And when Estonian software was installed first, the Belgian
software installs as well::

  $ sudo apt install eid-viewer eid-mw

Voilà.

..
  Afterwards I noticed that maybe both (Estonian) DigiDoc and (Belgian) eid
  viewer had been known to Tuxedo OS before and all this wasn't necessary. But
  I'm not sure.
