:date: 2024-09-23

======================================
I fixed the editor bug September 2024!
======================================

Monday, September 23, 2024

We had a bug in the text field editor: when you start editing a text field that
has already some content, the field gets cleared before you receive the focus. I
don't remember when I saw it for the first time. It's there already several
weeks or maybe months.

Yesterday I changed the quill version in :xfile:`package.json` from "^1.3.7" to
"^2.0.2", but I'd actually want to try upgrading all dependencies to their
latest version. How to do that?

::

  $ npm outdated
  Package                                     Current   Wanted   Latest  Location                                                 Depended by
  @babel/cli                                   7.24.8   7.25.6   7.25.6  node_modules/@babel/cli                                  react
  @babel/core                                  7.24.9   7.25.2   7.25.2  node_modules/@babel/core                                 react
  @babel/plugin-transform-runtime              7.14.3   7.25.4   7.25.4  node_modules/@babel/plugin-transform-runtime             react
  @babel/preset-env                            7.14.4   7.25.4   7.25.4  node_modules/@babel/preset-env                           react
  @babel/preset-react                         7.13.13   7.24.7   7.24.7  node_modules/@babel/preset-react                         react
  @electron-forge/cli                           7.4.0    7.5.0    7.5.0  node_modules/@electron-forge/cli                         react
  @electron-forge/maker-deb                     7.4.0    7.5.0    7.5.0  node_modules/@electron-forge/maker-deb                   react
  @electron-forge/maker-rpm                     7.4.0    7.5.0    7.5.0  node_modules/@electron-forge/maker-rpm                   react
  @electron-forge/maker-squirrel                7.4.0    7.5.0    7.5.0  node_modules/@electron-forge/maker-squirrel              react
  @electron-forge/maker-zip                     7.4.0    7.5.0    7.5.0  node_modules/@electron-forge/maker-zip                   react
  @electron-forge/plugin-auto-unpack-natives    7.4.0    7.5.0    7.5.0  node_modules/@electron-forge/plugin-auto-unpack-natives  react
  @electron-forge/plugin-fuses                  7.4.0    7.5.0    7.5.0  node_modules/@electron-forge/plugin-fuses                react
  @testing-library/jest-dom                     6.4.6    6.5.0    6.5.0  node_modules/@testing-library/jest-dom                   react
  @testing-library/react                       14.3.1   14.3.1   16.0.1  node_modules/@testing-library/react                      react
  @types/jest                                 29.5.12  29.5.13  29.5.13  node_modules/@types/jest                                 react
  @types/react                                 18.3.3   18.3.8   18.3.8  node_modules/@types/react                                react
  babel-loader                                  9.1.3    9.2.1    9.2.1  node_modules/babel-loader                                react
  css-loader                                   6.11.0   6.11.0    7.1.2  node_modules/css-loader                                  react
  css-minimizer-webpack-plugin                  5.0.1    5.0.1    7.0.0  node_modules/css-minimizer-webpack-plugin                react
  electron                                     29.4.5   29.4.6   32.1.2  node_modules/electron                                    react
  electron-log                                  5.1.7    5.2.0    5.2.0  node_modules/electron-log                                react
  esbuild                                     0.19.12  0.19.12   0.24.0  node_modules/esbuild                                     react
  i18next                                     23.13.0  23.15.1  23.15.1  node_modules/i18next                                     react
  i18next-browser-languagedetector              7.2.1    7.2.1    8.0.0  node_modules/i18next-browser-languagedetector            react
  i18next-http-backend                          2.5.2    2.6.1    2.6.1  node_modules/i18next-http-backend                        react
  jest-puppeteer                                9.0.2    9.0.2   10.1.1  node_modules/jest-puppeteer                              react
  primeicons                                    6.0.1    6.0.1    7.0.0  node_modules/primeicons                                  react
  puppeteer                                   21.11.0  21.11.0   23.4.0  node_modules/puppeteer                                   react
  query-string                                  8.2.0    8.2.0    9.1.0  node_modules/query-string                                react
  quill-mention                                 4.1.0    4.1.0    6.0.1  node_modules/quill-mention                               react
  rc-collapse                                   3.7.3    3.8.0    3.8.0  node_modules/rc-collapse                                 react
  react-i18next                                14.1.3   14.1.3   15.0.2  node_modules/react-i18next                               react
  react-router-dom                             6.26.1   6.26.2   6.26.2  node_modules/react-router-dom                            react
  style-loader                                  3.3.4    3.3.4    4.0.0  node_modules/style-loader                                react
  ts-jest                                      29.2.4   29.2.5   29.2.5  node_modules/ts-jest                                     react
  typescript                                    5.5.4    5.6.2    5.6.2  node_modules/typescript                                  react
  uglify-js                                    3.19.2   3.19.3   3.19.3  node_modules/uglify-js                                   react


::
  $ npx npm-check-updates -u
  Need to install the following packages:
  npm-check-updates@17.1.3
  Ok to proceed? (y)

  Upgrading /home/luc/work/react/package.json
  [====================] 76/76 100%

   @babel/cli                                    ^7.24.1  →   ^7.25.6
   @babel/core                                   ^7.13.1  →   ^7.25.2
   @babel/plugin-transform-runtime              ^7.13.10  →   ^7.25.4
   @babel/preset-env                             ^7.13.5  →   ^7.25.4
   @babel/preset-react                          ^7.12.13  →   ^7.24.7
   @babel/preset-typescript                      ^7.23.3  →   ^7.24.7
   @electron-forge/cli                            ^7.3.0  →    ^7.5.0
   @electron-forge/maker-deb                      ^7.3.0  →    ^7.5.0
   @electron-forge/maker-rpm                      ^7.3.0  →    ^7.5.0
   @electron-forge/maker-squirrel                 ^7.3.0  →    ^7.5.0
   @electron-forge/maker-zip                      ^7.3.0  →    ^7.5.0
   @electron-forge/plugin-auto-unpack-natives     ^7.3.0  →    ^7.5.0
   @electron-forge/plugin-fuses                   ^7.3.0  →    ^7.5.0
   @electron/fuses                                ^1.7.0  →    ^1.8.0
   @testing-library/jest-dom                      ^6.1.5  →    ^6.5.0
   @testing-library/react                        ^14.1.2  →   ^16.0.1
   @types/jest                                  ^29.5.11  →  ^29.5.13
   @types/lodash                               ^4.14.202  →   ^4.17.7
   @types/react                                 ^18.2.28  →   ^18.3.8
   @types/react-dom                             ^18.2.13  →   ^18.3.0
   autoprefixer                                  ^10.2.4  →  ^10.4.20
   babel-loader                                   ^9.1.3  →    ^9.2.1
   builder-util-runtime                           ^9.2.4  →    ^9.2.5
   classnames                                     ^2.2.6  →    ^2.5.1
   css-loader                                     ^6.8.1  →    ^7.1.2
   css-minimizer-webpack-plugin                   ^5.0.1  →    ^7.0.0
   electron                                      ^29.1.0  →   ^32.1.2
   electron-log                                   ^5.1.1  →    ^5.2.0
   electron-squirrel-startup                      ^1.0.0  →    ^1.0.1
   electron-updater                               ^6.1.8  →    ^6.3.4
   esbuild                                       ^0.19.8  →   ^0.24.0
   html-webpack-plugin                            ^5.5.3  →    ^5.6.0
   i18next                                      ^23.10.1  →  ^23.15.1
   i18next-browser-languagedetector               ^7.2.1  →    ^8.0.0
   i18next-http-backend                           ^2.5.0  →    ^2.6.1
   i18next-scanner                                ^4.4.0  →    ^4.5.0
   jest-puppeteer                                 ^9.0.2  →   ^10.1.1
   primeicons                                     ^6.0.1  →    ^7.0.0
   prop-types                                    ^15.7.2  →   ^15.8.1
   puppeteer                                     ^21.6.1  →   ^23.4.0
   query-string                                   ^8.1.0  →    ^9.1.0
   quill-mention                                  ^4.1.0  →    ^6.0.1
   rc-collapse                                    ^3.1.0  →    ^3.8.0
   react                                         ^18.2.0  →   ^18.3.1
   react-i18next                                 ^14.1.0  →   ^15.0.2
   react-router-dom                              ^6.21.1  →   ^6.26.2
   react-test-renderer                           ^18.2.0  →   ^18.3.1
   react-transition-group                         ^4.4.1  →    ^4.4.5
   style-loader                                   ^3.3.3  →    ^4.0.0
   ts-jest                                       ^29.1.1  →   ^29.2.5
   typescript                                     ^5.3.3  →    ^5.6.2
   uglify-js                                     ^3.17.4  →   ^3.19.3
   weak-key                                       ^1.0.2  →    ^1.0.3
   webpack                                       ^5.53.0  →   ^5.94.0
   whatwg-fetch                                   ^3.6.1  →   ^3.6.20
   workbox-precaching                             ^7.0.0  →    ^7.1.0
   workbox-webpack-plugin                         ^7.0.0  →    ^7.1.0

  Run npm install to install new versions.
  $

::

  $ npm install

  added 32 packages, removed 43 packages, changed 169 packages, and audited 1687 packages in 1m

  201 packages are looking for funding
    run `npm fund` for details

  7 vulnerabilities (1 high, 6 critical)

  To address all issues (including breaking changes), run:
    npm audit fix --force

  Run `npm audit` for details.
  $

::

  $ npm audit fix

  up to date, audited 1687 packages in 3s

  201 packages are looking for funding
    run `npm fund` for details

  # npm audit report

  babel-traverse  *
  Severity: critical
  Babel vulnerable to arbitrary code execution when compiling specifically crafted malicious code - https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-67hx-6x53-jw92
  fix available via `npm audit fix --force`
  Will install babel-plugin-transform-class-properties@6.10.2, which is a breaking change
  node_modules/babel-traverse
    babel-helper-function-name  *
    Depends on vulnerable versions of babel-template
    Depends on vulnerable versions of babel-traverse
    node_modules/babel-helper-function-name
      babel-plugin-transform-class-properties  >=6.11.5
      Depends on vulnerable versions of babel-helper-function-name
      Depends on vulnerable versions of babel-template
      node_modules/babel-plugin-transform-class-properties
    babel-template  *
    Depends on vulnerable versions of babel-traverse
    node_modules/babel-template

  json5  <1.0.2
  Severity: high
  Prototype Pollution in JSON5 via Parse Method - https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-9c47-m6qq-7p4h
  fix available via `npm audit fix --force`
  Will install webpack-typescript@0.5.5, which is a breaking change
  node_modules/webpack-typescript/node_modules/json5
    loader-utils  <=1.4.0
    Depends on vulnerable versions of json5
    node_modules/webpack-typescript/node_modules/loader-utils
      webpack-typescript  >=0.5.6
      Depends on vulnerable versions of loader-utils
      node_modules/webpack-typescript


  7 vulnerabilities (1 high, 6 critical)

  To address all issues (including breaking changes), run:
    npm audit fix --force
  $

::

  $ npm audit fix --force
  npm warn using --force Recommended protections disabled.
  npm warn audit Updating webpack-typescript to 0.5.5, which is a SemVer major change.
  npm warn audit Updating babel-plugin-transform-class-properties to 6.10.2, which is a SemVer major change.

  removed 25 packages, changed 2 packages, and audited 1662 packages in 2s

  201 packages are looking for funding
    run `npm fund` for details

  found 0 vulnerabilities
  $

After this upgrade, I had 2 `build` errors in :file:`cloneUI.ts` and
:file:`integrity.ts` in :file:`lino_react/react/components/__tests__`, the same
ones reported already by Joy when she had upgraded her dependencies. So it was
easy to fix them.

Now the front-end builds, and works at first glance... and surprise: the bug is
gone!

But there are at least two new problems:

quill Cannot import modules/mention. Are you sure it was registered?
====================================================================

When a textfield editor starts, the JS console says "quill Cannot import
modules/mention. Are you sure it was registered?"

I saw that quill-mention has evolved from version 4 to 6 and that the first
thing they instruct `in their README
<https://github.com/quill-mention/quill-mention>`__ is to `import
'quill-mention/autoregister';`, and that Lino's :xfile:`quillmodules.jsx` file
doesn't do this. So I added that line and the warning went away. No need to dive
deeper right now.

Uncaught (in promise) TypeError: n is null
==========================================

The `New Client` :term:`quick link` is broken. When I click it, the JS console
says::

    Uncaught (in promise) TypeError: n is null,
      onReady SiteContext.jsx:148
      setReady Base.ts:181
      componentDidMount Base.ts:153

This issue is actually old, and it goes away when you reload the dashboard. It
comes only when you had previously opened another table and then returned to the
main page. I think it is a bug in our logic for retrieving the parent's context.
I won't dive into this now because no customer has ever complained about it.

It seems you are still using the old wait option
================================================

Full warning in the JS console:

- react-i18next:: It seems you are still using the old wait option, you may
  migrate to the new useSuspense behaviour.

I had seen this warning before, and since it is still there after the upgrade, I
decided to investigate a bit.

As suggested e.g. `here
<https://stackoverflow.com/questions/74850076/react-i18next-old-usesuspense-warning>`__,
I replaced ``'wait'`` by ``'useSuspense'`` in  :file:`components/i18n.js` and
the  warning was gone. And I didn't dive deeper.

Another issue related to i18n is that the client requests GET
http://127.0.0.1:8000/static/react/locales/en/translation.json and receives "404
Not found". I didn't yet dive into this.

Support for defaultProps will be removed from function components in a future major release
===========================================================================================

We have indeed a `Labeled` component, defined in
:xfile:`LinoComponentUtils.jsx`, and not as a class but as a function.

Thanks to Matt Pocock, who explains how to handle this issue in  a short video
`Stop using defaultProps (React 18.3 preview)
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fnQusZt49_Y&t=102s>`_  After watching this
video  I was able to convert our code.
