:date: 2024-10-10

==========================
Thursday, October 10, 2024
==========================

.. default-domain:: js

I am working on :ticket:`5777` (ParameterStore (...) expects a list of 3 values
but got 5), which requires me to dive into the :xfile:`NavigationControl.js` and
:xfile:`Base.ts` files. This page contains my reading notes.

The :attr:`localStorage` read-only property of `window
<https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window>`__ allows you to
access a `Storage <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Storage>`__
object for the `Document
<https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document>`__\ 's origin; the
stored data is saved across browser sessions. :attr:`localStorage` is similar to
:attr:`sessionStorage`, except that :attr:`sessionStorage` gets cleared when the
page session ends — that is, when the page is closed. (Source: `mozilla.org
<https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage>`__) that


.. xfile:: Base.ts

The :xfile:`Base.ts` file:

- defines the :class:`DynDep` class, which adds dynamic dependency management to
  a class. The :meth:`constructor` loads the modules specified by
  :attr:`requiredModules` and then calls :meth:`prepare`, sets :attr:`ready` to
  true and finally calls :meth:`onReady` (which subclasses can override).

- it also defines a :class:`Component` class, which extends the bare
  :class:`React.Component` to use :class:`DynDep`.

The file also creates two contexts :data:`URLContextType` and
:data:`DataContextType`, using `React.createContext()
<https://react.dev/reference/react/createContext>`__, and their default value is
an (empty) object. A context lets a parent component provide data to the entire
tree below it. (Source: `react.dev
<https://react.dev/learn/passing-data-deeply-with-context>`__)

They are assigned to the `contextType
<https://react.dev/reference/react/Component#static-contexttype>`__ of our
components. More precisely:

- :data:`URLContextType` is used by: GridFilter, LinoBbar, LinoBody, LinoLayout,
  LinoDialog, LinoPaginator, LinoParamsPanel, ...

- :data:`DataContextType` is used by: GridElement, LinoComponents.UnknownElement

IOW, in a GridElement instance, e.g. in the :meth:`GridElement.arrowSelect`
method, `this.context` points to the :data:`DataContextType` and we
can say ``this.context.rows`` to access the array of rows. Two questions:

- Do all :class:`GridElement` instances share the same context? I guess that
  React actually makes a copy of `contextType` for each new instance.

- Where do we define that a :data:`DataContextType` has an attribute ``rows``?


I see that React "recommend defining components as functions instead of
classes." So some day we will probably `want to migrate
<https://react.dev/reference/react/Component#alternatives>`__. But that won't be
as easy as they describe it because we use an enhanced :class:`Component` base
class.


.. xfile:: NavigationControl.js

The :xfile:`NavigationControl.js` file:

- defines the :class:`Context` class, which extends :class:`DynDep`. A Context
  is a controller for all navigation features. It as an attribute
  :attr:`contextType`, which contains one of the following values (defined in
  :xfile:`constants.js`)::

    CONTEXT_TYPE_SINGLE_ROW = "SingleRow";
    CONTEXT_TYPE_MULTI_ROW = "MultiRow";
    CONTEXT_TYPE_ACTION = "Action";

- defines the :class:`History` class, with attributes like
  :attr:`state` (contains the "router state", an instance of :class:`State`),
  and :attr:`context` (the context of its owner).

  :meth:`History.pushPath`

- defines :class:`Delegate`
- defines :class:`State`, which represents a *router state*


The :class:`ActionHandler`
==========================

.. class:: ActionHandler

  .. method:: singleRow(event, pk, where, status)

    Open a detail window on the given primary key `pk` in the current table.




The :meth:`ActionHandler.singleRow` method is called by:

- :meth:`GridElement.showDetail` (which is called when you click on the first cell of a row)
- when you click on the title of a :class:`LinoCards` item


.. class:: GridElement

defines

:meth:`DynDep.reflect`



:class:`RegisterImportPool`,
