:date: 2024-12-19

===========================
Thursday, December 19, 2024
===========================

Lino can generate a PEPPOL-compliant invoice, i.e. an XML file that follows the
EN 16931-1 standard (:ref:`dg.topics.peppol`). But how is the site user supposed
to do with this file? As far as I understood the system, they must "upload this
file into the PEPPOL network".

`Compliance with the European standard on eInvoicing. Explaining the standard
<https://ec.europa.eu/digital-building-blocks/sites/display/DIGITAL/Compliance+with+eInvoicing+standard>`__
is a good introduction to :term:`PEPPOL`.
Interesting, but doesn't answer my question.

EESPA, the European Association of E-Invoicing Service Providers, is an
international not-for-profit association (AISBL/IVZW) organised under Belgian
law. And they offer a `partner programme
<https://www.eespa.eu/join-as-a-member>`__.  But haha, this is obviously not for
Lino: the one-time joining fee is €1000, plus a yearly membership fee which was
€2750 in for 2023.

A company in Denmark, named Bizbrains A/S, offer a `partner programme
<https://peppol.com/about-peppol-com/partner-programme/>`__ that seems to be
what I need. On their website they write:

  Is your company an ERP house, an e-commerce provider or an EDI service
  provider (VAN)? Or do you sell products where you need to be able to send
  and/or receive PEPPOL invoices? If so, you have much to gain by partnering up
  with Peppol.com and establishing a close integration with our PEPPOL services
  – via our API, for example. As a Peppol.com partner, you can provide your
  users with the opportunity to send and receive e-invoices. We can also handle
  transformations between the PEPPOL format and the format you use in-house.

I filled their contact form, we'll see where this leads.

The `peppol-py <https://github.com/iterasdev/peppol-py>`__ package might be
interesting. It is a "python implementation for sending peppol eDelivery AS4
documents". 
