:date: 2018-01-06

=========================
Saturday, January 6, 2018
=========================

Yesterday night, after two weeks in Facebook I am now excluded again:
Facebook decided that they want to verify my identity before letting
me continue using their services.  They asked me to `please upload a
photo of yourself which clearly shows your face
<https://www.facebook.com/help/community/question/?id=1321872044593566>`__.

This confirms what Aatif Sulleyman wrote on `independent.co.uk
<http://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/gadgets-and-tech/news/facebook-forcing-users-upload-selfies-captcha-invalid-picture-account-locked-password-a8081811.html>`__
some weeks ago (29 November 2017): Facebook has started asking users
to upload pictures of their faces, in order to access their accounts.
It appears to be a new kind of CAPTCHA, and is being used by the
social network to verify people’s identities.  Facebook will lock you
out of your account if you decide not to upload an image or upload an
image it considers to be “invalid”, users say.

They promised "We'll check it and then permanently delete it from our
servers", so I did a quick selfie and uploaded it.  Will they
recognize them as being the same face?  For the moment I received
already 2 messages saying:

    You can't log in at the moment

    We'll get in touch with you shortly after we've reviewed it. You'll
    now be logged out of Facebook as a security precaution.

All this sounds normal to me. I can imagine that my "activity" on
Facebook is suspicious: I had more than 300 new friends since I opened
my new account on :doc:`../2017/1216`.

On Sundy night my account was activated again.
