:date: 2018-01-12

========================
Friday, January 12, 2018
========================

New field Ticket.fixed_since
============================

I opened :ticket:`2252` : which might be something I have been wanting
since the beginnings of my career :ref:`jane` we need, per ticket, a
field to hold the timestamp of "the" code change which fixed this
ticket.

The challenge is that it is never definitively clear which code change
fixed a ticket. So it is not trivial how to (1) set and (2) manually
adapt and (3) check the validity that field.

First implementation which seems possible is a couple of two fields
`fixed_date` and `fixed_time` on the
:class:`lino_xl.lib.tickets.Ticket` model, a new checkbox `fixing` per
:class:`lino_xl.lib.clocking.Session` and a new datachecker which
verifies whether `fixed_date` and `fixed_time` correspond to
`end_date` and `end_time` of the latest fixing session on that ticket.

Before starting to work on this I renamed the
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.clocking` to :mod:`lino_xl.lib.working`
(:ticket:`2253`).  This is a typical example of what a disciplinated
developer shouldn't do: work on two unrelated tickets at the same
time.  I know that I am not disciplinated...  no, actually I had a
"good" reason to disobbey the rule: I saw the need for #2253 when
planning #2252. And opened the new ticket.  But I knew that #2253 is
the kind of ticket nobody will ever do just for fun.  I am the only
guy who has a chance of enjoying this task...

When testing :ticket:`2252` manually, I stumbled into :ticket:`2254`
and fixed it as well.  Oops, and yesterday I sent a mail to Mathieu,
suggesting that I upgrade their Lino after yesterday's changes.
:ticket:`2254` would have been a disturbing surprise for them and for
me.  What a chance that I started working on :ticket:`2252` before
Mathieu had answered to my mail!



Avanti
======

I met with Johanna and opened :ticket:`2256`, a new tasks list for
:ref:`avanti`.

DONE:

- Neues Feld "Lebt in DG seit" (neben "Lebt in Belgien seit")
- Neue Ankreuzfelder 1) Kunde beim ÖSHZ und 2) Eingetragen beim ADG
- Die 3 Ankreuzfelder in diesem Reiter zusammenlegen
- Fehlermeldung "AnswersByQuestionRow has no attribute obj2href" unter
  Umfragen -> Meine Umfragen das Detail einer Frage öffnet

- DavLink schon mal einbauen, damit es bei Bedarf kurzfristig
  aktiviert werden kann
  
- Entwicklungsschritte pro Phase : add remote fields of Client model
  
- Abmahnungen : Sozialarbeiter soll nach (+) noch den Mahngrad
  auswählen können, nach Bestätigung des Einfügefensters soll das
  Detail gar nicht kommen.

TODO  
  
- Neues Dokument "Abschließende Sozialbilanz" (siehe Anhang). Zunächst
  mal als nicht bearbeitbares .doc
  
- Entwicklungsschritte pro Phase : Filterkriterium Datum von-bis

- Abmahnungen : nach Bestätigung des Einfügefensters soll das Dokument
  gleich gedruckt werden.
  
- Und dann soll der Ausdruck Abmahnungen nicht leer sein, sondern
  gleicher Inhalt wie in den Beispieldokumenten.
  
