:date: 2018-01-12

========================
Friday, January 12, 2018
========================

New field Ticket.fixed_since
============================

I opened :ticket:`2252` : which might be something I have been wanting
since the beginnings of my career :ref:`jane` we need, per ticket, a
field to hold the timestamp of "the" code change which fixed this
ticket.

The challenge is that it is never definitively clear which code change
fixed a ticket. So it is not trivial how to (1) set and (2) manually
adapt and (3) check the validity that field.

First implementation which seems possible is a couple of two fields
`fixed_date` and `fixed_time` on the
:class:`lino_xl.lib.tickets.Ticket` model, a new checkbox `fixing` per
:class:`lino_xl.lib.clocking.Session` and a new datachecker which
verifies whether `fixed_date` and `fixed_time` correspond to
`end_date` and `end_time` of the latest fixing session on that ticket.

En passant I renamed the :mod:`lino_xl.lib.clocking` to
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.working` (:ticket:`2253`). This is a typical example
of what a disciplinated developer shouldn't do: work on two unrelated
tickets at the same time.  I know that I am not disciplinated...  no,
actually I had a "good" reason to not obbey the rule: when planning
#2252 I saw the need for #2253 and opened that ticket as well. And I
knew that #2253 is the kind of ticket nobody will ever do just for
fun.  The only guy who would ever

While working on this I stumbled into :ticket:`2254` and fixed it as
well.  Oops, and yesterday I sent a mail to Mathie suggesting that I
upgrade their Lino after yesterday's changes.  :ticket:`2254` would
have been a disturbing surprise for them and for me.  What a chance
that I started working on :ticket:`2252` before Mathieu had answered
to my mail!

After pushing my work I saw that there are still a few failures in
book, probably trivial ones.  But I am tired, my session is getting
over, I leave them for tomorrow.
