:date: 2018-01-13

==========================
Saturday, January 13, 2018
==========================

I started to change the year of copyright statements from 2017 to 2018
in the Sphinx :xfile:`conf.py` files and the :xfile:`COPYING` or
:xfile:`LICENSE` files of most projects.

Usually it is something like this::

  copyright = '2015-2018 Luc Saffre'

In one project (:ref:`extjs6`) we have::

  copyright = '2015-2018 Luc Saffre & Hamza Khchine'

Which is probably not what we want in the long run.  At least Tonis is
missing there.  And actually we do not want to add every individual
contributor to every copyright statement.  The best option would
probably be something like this::

  copyright = '2015-2018 Lino Team'

But we currently don't have any legal person called "Lino Team".  We
have either "Luc Saffre" or "Rumma & Ko OÜ".  And if some day we would
found a legal entity for Lino, then its name would probably not be
"Lino Team" because it is too general as a name. There are other
projects called "Lino".  See :ref:`lino.name`.  Possible other names
for that future entity are "Lino Framework project" or "Lino Software
Foundation".

I started to change the documentation under :ref:`lino.team` and
:ref:`ss.free`.
  



Renaming a server
=================

I had the spontaneous idea of changing the hostname
of the virtual machine which serves :ref:`ml` from 
`serveur-1` to `ovh1`.

I followed the instructions found `here
<https://wiki.debian.org/HowTo/ChangeHostname>`__

::

    $ hostnamectl set-hostname ovh1
    Could not set property: The name org.freedesktop.PolicyKit1 was not provided by any .service files


    # ll /etc/ssh/*.pub 
    -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 604 Jan 15  2016 /etc/ssh/ssh_host_dsa_key.pub
    -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 176 Jan 15  2016 /etc/ssh/ssh_host_ecdsa_key.pub
    -rw-r--r-- 1 root root  96 Jan 19  2016 /etc/ssh/ssh_host_ed25519_key.pub
    -rw-r--r-- 1 root root 391 Jan 13 14:38 /etc/ssh/ssh_host_rsa_key.pub

(Edit these four files : change root@server-1 to root@ovh1 at the end of the line)

::
   # service ssh restart
   Restarting OpenBSD Secure Shell server: sshd.
