:date: 2018-01-14

========================
Sunday, January 14, 2018
========================

release@jane
============

I deployed my recent changes to :ref:`jane` because I want to test the
use_django_forms changes on our own production site before deploying
them to a customer.  Also because I'd like to see how :ticket:`2252`
works. And also because I renamed clocking to working which requires a
manual data migration.

As a side effect I changed the default logger format to include
process id and thread number to the :xfile:`lino.log` file.  This is
another attempt to gather information about the "xxx.Yyy has no
list_layout" and "'TableHandle' object has no attribute 'store'"
errors.

I had some problems caused by low memory and tried several things to
explore the situation.  Today I learned that nothing helped but a
reboot.

My :xfile:`restore.py` got killed after having read the tickets::

    Deferred Ticket #1882 ('#1882 (\u2612 FK links in table view direct to current URL in extjs6)') : {'duplicate_of': [u"Ticket instance with id u'1901' does not exist."]}
    Trying to save 14 deferred objects.
    Saved 14 objects.
    Killed

    real	18m58.833s
    user	8m8.172s
    sys	0m16.748s

After a :xfile:`reload_services.sh` it went a bit further but still
got killed before reaching the end::

    Loading 103 objects to table django_mailbox_message...
    Deferred Message #74 ('') : {'subject': [u'This field cannot be blank.']}
    {'subject': [u'This field cannot be blank.']}
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "/usr/local/python/lino_sites/jane/env/repositories/lino/lino/utils/dpy.py", line 158, in try_save
        obj.full_clean()
      File "/usr/local/python/lino_sites/jane/env/local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/django/db/models/base.py", line 1249, in full_clean
        raise ValidationError(errors)
    ValidationError: {'subject': [u'This field cannot be blank.']}
    Trying to save 4 deferred objects.
    Deferred Message #74 ('') : {'subject': [u'This field cannot be blank.']}
    Saved 0 objects.
    Loading 11 objects to table django_mailbox_messageattachment...
    Trying to save 4 deferred objects.
    Deferred Message #74 ('') : {'subject': [u'This field cannot be blank.']}
    Saved 0 objects.
    Killed

    real	27m46.789s
    user	11m28.020s
    sys	0m24.076s
        
I tried to add an explicit carbage collection before every input
file::

    import gc
    _ef = execfile

    def execfile(x):
        gc.collect()
        _ef(x)

This method fails because it causes a different return value for
:func:`locals`.  I tried by manually adding calls to `gc.collect()`
after every line. Also without success. 
  
It seems to depend largely on the output of :cmd:`free`. Here
is how it should look in a normal situation (after a *successful*
reload)::

    $ free -h
                 total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
    Mem:          1.9G       1.4G       537M       2.5M       147M       201M
    -/+ buffers/cache:       1.0G       887M
    Swap:         1.0G       3.2M       1.0G


Independetly of these memory problems it turned out that the
use_django_forms branch did cause more bugs in the extjs6 ui, they
just weren't covered and we didn't see them. As a quick workaround I
switched the default_ui of Jane back to extjs3. 


Avanti continued
================

I continued to work on :ticket:`2256`

Bugfix
======

Displaying certain tickets,
e.g. http://bugs.saffre-rumma.net/tickets/Tickets/797 caused a ::

    ParseError at /tickets/Tickets/797
    undefined entity: line 1, column 144
  
This was caused by changes in
:meth:`elems.HtmlBoxElement.as_plain_html` method. Now it works again,
but the whoe thing needs more testing.
