:date: 2018-01-15

========================
Monday, January 15, 2018
========================

I continued to work in :mod:`lino_book.projects.adg` for
:ticket:`2256`.
       
The :xfile:`final_report.body.html` excerpt action on
:class:`lino_avanti.lib.avanti.Client` didn't want to show up as
expected. That was because it was "hidden" by the
:xfile:`TermsConditions.odt` defined on
:class:`lino_xl.lib.contacts.Person`.  That was because the
`lino_xl.lib.excerpts.set_excerpts_actions` method didn't yet support
models which have MTI children.


Lino and Google's People API
============================

Hamza and I invested another hour playing with the
:xfile:`try_people_api.py` script.  Here `this
<https://stackoverflow.com/questions/41466731/how-can-i-refresh-the-token-with-social-auth-app-django>`__
describes a problem which we also had and we didn't resolve.
:xfile:`try_people_api.py` fails when we run it more than one hour
after having authenticated via the web interface.  On my machine it
said :message:`TypeError: expected string or buffer`.  On Hamza's
machine it was something else.  It seems that PSA uses some trick for
refreshing an expired token.

But here I said "Stop" because actually we don't even know whether
this is a problem for us, because we have no concrete use case.  We
decided to put this ticket to sleep now until there is somebody (other
than me) who wants it. The :xfile:`try_people_api.py` script in
:mod:`lino_book.projects.team` shows what we learned. The question now
is: what do we want to do with that information. And the answer
depends on the customer...

Hamza will now concentrate on getting the test suites to pass on
Python 3 (:ticket:`36`).

