:date: 2018-01-22

========================
Monday, January 22, 2018
========================

Statistical data per Working Site in Noi
========================================

While doing statistics about our work in 2017, I saw that the
MySitesDashboard table needs optimization, it is too slow to have in
my dashboard because it does a mydiar of SQL queries for counting all
those tickets each time. And actually the number of tickets is only
one kind of summary we want to have per site.  Another important
number (for me) is the number of working hours.

It is now implemented using summary fields
(:mod:`lino.modlib.summaries`).  This was :ticket:`2270` (Use
summaries for SitesDashboard).

As a side effect I merged the working plugin from noi into xl. Because
we no longer have any use case for that differenciation (and because
it makes things needlessly complicated).

Another side effect is that also :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.esf` now
generates gross total summaries (i.e. summary records having
year=None). And therefore the Summaries tables have :attr:`hide_sums`
set to True.

What is a "Site" in Noi anyway?
===============================

A :class:`lino_xl.lib.tickets.Site` in :ref:`noi` is an important
concept for our team in order to organize aur tickets.

It has nothing to do with :class:`lino.core.site.Site` nor with
:class:`lino.modlib.system.SiteConfig`, it rather means a *building
site* or *construction site* (German "Baustelle", French "Chantier").

What would be a better name?  Does a Site in Lino Noi correspond to a
Product Backlog Item (PBI) in Scrum? Not exacly, because a PBI should
be small enough to be handled during a single sprint.  A PBI
(according to `scruminc.com
<https://www.scruminc.com/product-backlog-item-pbi/>`__) can be a
"specification", "requirement", "use case", an "epic", a "user story",
a "bug", a "chore", a "timeboxed research task".  Important properties
of a PBI are

- a description
- a "business value"  (determined by the Product Owner).
- an "estimate" (the relative effort needed to do it. Estimated by the
  Team)
- "seqno" (the Product Owner prioritizes PBIs)

A :class:`lino_xl.lib.tickets.Site` in :ref:`noi` has a mnemonic name
which we use internally to speak about it. It can correspond to

- a virtual machine with a production site maintained by our team
  (jane, avanti, welcht, ...)
- a documentation web site or some part thereof (book, guide,
- Some long-term project (extjs3, py2to3, ...)
