:date: 2018-01-25

==========================
Thursday, January 25, 2018
==========================

Estonian residents
==================

A ZDNet article by Kalev Ääsmäe based on an interview with Kaspar
Korjus presents Estonias `e-residency programm
<https://e-resident.gov.ee/>`_ in a shiny positive light: `Estonia's
ID card fiasco: 'We've no intention of letting a good crisis go to
waste'
<http://www.zdnet.com/article/estonias-id-card-fiasco-weve-no-intention-of-letting-a-good-crisis-go-to-waste/>`__.
It also suggests that Estonia can become the best country for ICOs
in 2018.

This is in visible contrast with Otto De Voogd's sad story where
Estonia lost four *real* residents because Otto had been faced with
the real --and unfortunatley very obsolete-- juristic apparatus.  See
`Bad News for Otto De Voogd as Supreme Court Regulates Bitcoin in
Estonia
<https://www.newsbtc.com/2016/04/11/otto-de-voogd-bitcoin-estonia-case/>`_.

Optimizations in Noi
====================

The :ref:`avanti` project moved from "development mode" to
"maintenance mode".  To reflect the changed situation, I changed the
ref of "avanti" to "avanti-dev", then created two new sites
"avanti-regular" (for regular maintenance requests) and "avanti-talk"
(for tickets that are to be invoiced additionally). But that
differentiation makes no sense and is disturbing in practive because
Avanti remains a single continuous project.


I added a new field :attr:`TicketType.reporting_type` and en passant I
did some optimizations in the insert_layout and detail_layout of
Tickets:

- mission and topic become invisible
- commits, changes, deployments and stars become ShowSlaveTable
  actions
- planned_time is now a DurationField (not a TimeField)
- removed "private" from insert_layout because it depends on the site.


release@jane
============


I released above changes on Jane and was glad to see that indeed the
tickets tables now display much faster.  That's because three slave
tables aren't being summaried anymore for every ticket. They are still
accessible via the ShowSlaveTable actions.

Observation about permissions
=============================

I wondered whether I may adapt the :ref:`avanti.specs.roles` specs
where it now says that `cal.EntriesByProject.insert` is visible to
coordinator.  Which does not cause any visible difference since a
coordinator does not see clients at all.
