:date: 2018-01-26

========================
Friday, January 26, 2018
========================

Referring to source code of a python object
===========================================

I discovered :ticket:`2285` and did preliminary tests.

I moved some code :func:`py2url_txt
<atelier.sphinxconf.base.py2url_txt>` from :mod:`lino_xl` to
:mod:`atelier.sphinxconf.base` because that's where it should be.

Here is a code snippet which reproduces the problem:

>>> from lino import startup
>>> startup('lino_book.projects.min1.settings.demo')
>>> from atelier.sphinxconf.base import py2url_txt
>>> print(py2url_txt('lino')[0])
https://github.com/lino-framework/lino/blob/master/lino/__init__.py
>>> print(py2url_txt('lino.api.doctest')[0])
Error in Python code ('module' object has no attribute 'doctest')


Chase Seibert had the same problem:
https://chase-seibert.github.io/blog/2014/04/23/python-imp-examples.html

But his solution doesn't work out of the box for our context. Needs
more work.


Nachtrag Avanti
===============

Der neue Klientenzustand "Empfangsbestätigung" fehlte noch.  (I still
had some dead code in :mod:`lino_avanti.lib.avanti.choicelists` and
did that change there but then didn't verify whether it was visible.)


TypeError: 'type' object is not iterable
========================================

Came when creating a new ticket.
This was my mistake. Needs a quick release to Jane.


Lino Tera weiter
================

I did a series of application-specific changes based on a mail by
Daniel.  Then a relase to their production site followed by a data
import (:mod:`lino_xl.lib.tim2lino.spzloader2`)

::
   
    ProfessionalStates

    11 Selbstständig/Freiberufler 
    31 Arbeiter/Angestellter      
    51 in Ausbildung              
    54 Hausfrau/Hausmann          
    61 arbeitslos                 
    63 berufsunfähig              
    65 Sozialhilfeempfänger       
    80 im Ruhestand               
    90 andere Situation           
    00 unbekannt                  


    PartnerTariffs

    00 unbekannt    
    10 zahlt nichts 
    11 Tarif 2,00   
    12 Tarif 5,00   
    13 Tarif 10,00  
    14 Tarif 15,00  
    15 Tarif 20,00  
    16 Tarif 39,56  


    Lebensweise
    02 allein ohne Kinder           
    03 allein mit Kindern           
    21 in Partnerschaft mit Kindern 
    22 in Partnerschaft ohne Kinder 
    31 bei Eltern                   
    32 alternierend bei Eltern      
    35 bei einem Elternteil         
    37 bei Pflegeeltern             
    60 Adoptivfamilie               
    81 in Einrichtung oder WG       
    90 sonstige Möglichkeit         
    

