:date: 2018-02-09

========================
Friday, February 9, 2018
========================

Trying to fix a UnicodeDecodeError
==================================

We have a reproducible unicode error on :ref:`cpaschatelet`.  It happens
when generating the automatice calendar entries of a contract.  It
happens only when the :attr:`EventType.event_label` contains a text
with non-ascii chars.  I tried to reproduce it::

>>> from lino import startup
>>> startup('lino_welfare.projects.chatelet.settings.demo')
>>> from lino.api.doctest import *


>>> # rt.show('cal.EventTypes')
>>> # rt.show('courses.Courses', column_names='id line__event_type')

>>> et = rt.models.cal.EventType.objects.get(name="Évaluation")
>>> et.event_label
u'\xc9valuation'

>>> qs = rt.models.jobs.Contract.objects.filter(type__exam_policy__event_type=et)
>>> obj = qs.order_by('id').first()
>>> obj
Contract #1 ("Mise \xe0 l'emploi art60\xa77#1 (Bernd BRECHT)")

>>> s = obj.update_cal_summary(et, 1)
>>> print(s)
Évaluation 1
>>> type(s)
<class 'future.types.newstr.newstr'>
>>> s
'\xc9valuation 1'


>>> s = obj.update_cal_summary(None, 1)
>>> print(s)
Évaluation 1
>>> type(s)
<type 'unicode'>
>>> s
u'\xc9valuation 1'

Hm, all this looks perfectly normal! Maybe it is just a local problem
in their database configuration?


Confidential data in Avanti
===========================

Johanna asked for two optimizations: An auditor of a :ref:`avanti`
site should not even see the first name of participants. Just their
number and the place where they live. And they should not see any
presences (:class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.Guest`) at all.

As a side effect I added a new option `show_links` to
:meth:`lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.show` and added some testing in
:ref:`avanti.specs.roles`. Because until now these tables did not
indicate whether the names of participants were clickable or not.


A strange failure
=================

Today I had a failure (:ticket:`2314`) under Python 2 in book:: 

  $ doctest docs/specs/voga/sales.rst
  
The failure said::

  EvaluationError: Error while evaluating the
  expression "table(obj.get_print_items(ar))" defined in the "from" part
  of a statement. UnicodeEncodeError: 'ascii' codec can't encode
  character u'\u20ac' in position 1447: ordinal not in range(128)

I got rid of it by changing the "if False:" in line 279 of
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.appypod.appy_renderer` back to "if True:".  But I
have no idea why the failure didn't come on Travis nor on Hamza's
machine.  Maybe try with Hamza on his machine whether he can reproduce
it.

Why software must be free
=========================

I updated and translated the page at http://www.saffre-rumma.net/free/
