:date: 2018-02-13

==========================
Tuesday, February 13, 2018
==========================

Dashboard items and table titles
================================

My yesterday's changes caused a failure in :ref:`welfare`::

    File "welfare/docs/specs/main.rst", line 49, in main.rst
    Failed example:
        for h in soup.find_all('h2'):
            print(h.text.strip())
    Expected:
        Benutzer und ihre Klienten ⍐
        Wartende Besucher ⍐
        Meine Termine ⍐
        Meine überfälligen Termine ⍐
        Meine Benachrichtigungen ⍐
    Got:
        Benutzer und ihre Klienten ⍐
        Wartende Besucher (Wartet) ⍐
        Meine Termine (Verwaltet durch Rolf Rompen, Daten von 22.05.2014 bis ...) ⍐
        Meine überfälligen Termine (Verwaltet durch Rolf Rompen, Daten von 01.04.2014 bis 22.05.2014) ⍐
        Meine Benachrichtigungen (Empfänger Rolf Rompen, Nein) ⍐

Yes, indeed: :meth:`lino.core.dashboard.DashboardItem.render_request`
should not show the full title (:meth:`get_title
<lino.core.actors.Actor.get_title>`) buy just the
:meth:`get_title_base <lino.core.actors.Actor.get_title_base>`.

En passant:

- I changed the symbol used to show a dashboard item in own window
  from [⍐] (2350) to [⏏] (23CF)

- I added a new specs page :ref:`book.specs.events` (because I was
  surprised that abovementioned test failure appeared only during
  welfare, not already in book. With this page it would have appeared
  earlier.


Lino Tera
=========

I played with the names, labels, titles and references of courses,
course lines, teams etc.  I am fiddling around based on different (but
fuzzy) input sources:

- feedback from Daniel after looking at the site
- the imported data I see on their production site
- what I believe they need

A team in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.teams` is now :class:`Referrable
<lino.mixins.Referrable>` (which might require a database migration
also for other applications).

Some translations.  Verbose names and position in detail of fields
`Course.user` and `Course.teacher`.

I changed the :class:`MyCoursesGiven` no longer uses
:meth:`setup_request` and a :attr:`master_key` but simply
:meth:`param_defaults` (like in :class:`lino.modlib.users.My`).  This
was needed after the changes in dashboard this morning.


Django migrations in Lino
=========================

I started to think a bit more seriously about how Django migrations on
a Lino application would look like. Because a :xfile:`restore.py` at
:ref:`spz` takes two hours.  And because I saw how they work at
:ref:`ajapaik`.

The fundamental challenge is that a Lino application can inject fields
(i.e. one plugin causes a field to be created on a model in another
plugin) and can have conditional fields (plugins whose database
structure depends on some local setting).  This challenge was easier
than I feared, thanks to Django's `MIGRATION_MODULES
<https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-MIGRATION_MODULES>`__
setting: we define one common migrations module for all plugins of a
given application.  New site attribute
:attr:`lino.core.site.Site.migration_module`.  I tried this in
:mod:`lino_book.projects.min9`. Seems to work as expected::

    $ go min9
    $ python manage.py makemigrations

It reveals two more challenges: choices and babel values. Django does
not know how to serialize them. I must add a :meth:`deconstruct`
method for these. Seems feasible. To be tested.

Also the default value of ChoiceList fields causes a problem --at
least in Python 2-- because it uses an unbound method.  In a first
step I converted all `default` values in application code from the
deprecated `default=MyChoices.foo.as_callable` form to
`default=MyChoices.as_callable('foo')`. Just to discover that this is
not enough because it also creates an unbound function.  A possible
solution could be to simply deserialize them to the choice's `value`
(which is a plain string) and to make a ChoiceListField interpret them
correctly.  If that works, we could define the default value of
choicelist fields simply as `default='foo'`. But will that work on
choicelists that get repopulated in a `custom_workflows` module? We
will see...
