:date: 2018-02-23

=========================
Friday, February 23, 2018
=========================

Yes, after two days of meditation I will remove the "published" field
again, and not even replace it by a "state" field, and return back to
have comment be a ChangeObservable.

One day I will probably also remove CommentType, just to make things
clear: the :mod:`lino.modlib.comments` plugin is about simple
comments.  Maybe once in the future we will start a "discuss" plugin
where every statement has a state, a workflow, a rating merchanism...

I realized that adding new features to the comments framework will not
make me go away from my blogging habit.  A comment is something I want
to "say" to others. And as in the real world it is my responsibility
think at least a bit before I say something.  What I call my my "blog"
is actually not even a blog, it is rather a "detailed changelog".

Filtrer les notifications pour certains interventants
=====================================================

In :ref:`welfare`, every active coach of a client gets notified about
every change on that client (more exactly changes on the client
itself, on coachings and on notes).

In :ref:`welcht` they now want certain users to be notified only about
changes in a client's notes (the :class:`notes.NotesByProject` panel)
while changes in coachings and on the client itself should not be
notified to these users.

This is the perfect use case for
:class:`lino.modlib.notify.MessageTypes`: each type of change get's
its own message type.  This choicelist was rather unused until now, I
wasn't sure at all whether we shouldn't remove it.  New method
:meth:`lino.modlib.notify.Message.get_notify_message_type`.


The decision will be done in a generic place, namely in the
:meth:`emit_message <lino.modlib.notify.Message.emit_message>` class
method.  The next question is: how to tell Lino who wants notification
for a given message type who doesn't?  The most generic solution would
be to add a `required_roles` to every message type and to check these
against the every user's `user_type.role`.  One problem: it seems that
they are having many users with `user_type` Administrator.  I wait for
feedback from Mathieu for that.

