:date: 2018-03-05

=====================
Monday, March 5, 2018
=====================


I did an :cmd:`apt upgrade` on :ref:`lf`.

I continued on :ticket:`2333`.  The last piece of the jigsaw puzzle is
an interface for defining applicaton-specific notification types.

Short analysis where message types were being used until now:

- ChangeObserver has a default message type "change"

- notify fixture demo manually emits a notification "The database has
  been initialized" of type "system".
- lino_welfare.modlib.pcsw : RefuseClient action emits a notification
  of type "action", message text is based on RefusalReasons.
- lino_welfare.modlib.reception.CreateClientVisit uses type "change"
- tickets when assigned_to field changes, the Ticket model emits a
  "action" message.
- after creating a ticket


Side effect:

- :func:`atelier.utils.isidentifier`
  was definied in :mod:`lino.modlib.system` until now.
  
Code changes:

- :meth:`MessageType.__init__` : the 'value' and 'name' of a message
  type must be the same.

- New message types :
  - 'coachings' (requires CoachingsUser role)
  - 'notes' (requires OfficeUser role)
  - 'tickets' (requires Triager role)

TODO: Wouldn't it be interesting to define a user role "ClientsUser"
and use this instead of CoachingsUser?

I realized that actually the user roles are not a useful criteria for
masking notification messages.  Whether a user receives a notification
is decided by the application anyway.  Whether they want to see a
given type of message is not related to what they have *permission* to
see.  That's why we now have
:meth:`lino.modlib.users.UserType.mask_notifications` and the
`mask_message_types` set.

