:date: 2018-03-20

=======================
Tuesday, March 20, 2018
=======================

More minor changes for :ticket:`36`.  I proceed by having a look at
the last travis build and fix one error at a time.

https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/book/jobs/355712132



I started working on :ticket:`2347` (Make Lino installable using pip).

https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/distributing-packages/#packaging-your-project




Changes in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.courses`
=====================================

About :ticket:`2351`.

After changing the end_date of on a course from 31.12.2018 (which was
wrong) to empty (which is what they want), there was one automatically
generated event which had this end_date. I tried to manually remove
the Lino changes this event from suggested to draft.  Which is logical
but not what we want.  Actually we want it to remain a suggestion. The
trick here is to simply delete the automatic event and let Lino
re-generate them all.

I did some subtle code changes for :ticket:`2351` (Atelier avec une
série de 3 week-ends). Lino Welfare did not yet support managing a
workshop that generates a series of week-ends (i.e. of meetings which
last more than one day, i.e. where every calendar entry has an end
date).  For example I moved :meth:`before_auto_event_save` and
:meth:`compare_auto_event` from the `EventGenerator` to the
`RecurrenceSet`.  There were also some places where the rule "empty
end_date means same as start_date" was not fully applied.

To test these changes, I added an activity "Five weekends 2014" to the
demo fixture for :mod:`lino_book.projects.voga2` data. Afterwards
there was a problem when printing invoice SLS 11 in ::

    EvaluationError: Error while evaluating the expression
    "table(obj.get_print_items(ar))" defined in the "from" part of a
    statement. XMLSyntaxError: Extra content at the end of the
    document, line 3, column 1 (line 3)
    
I opened :ticket:`2353` for this. I don't know why this problem
occured only now.  To fix it, I changed how
:func:`lino.utils.bleacher.rich_text_to_elems` works. It now uses
:func:`lxml.html.fragments_fromstring` instead of
:func:`lxml.etree.fromstring` because the former had a problem with
newlines added between and after tags by :func:`restify
<lino.utils.restify.restify>`.


      
