:date: 2018-04-30

======================
Monday, April 30, 2018
======================

When I wrote yesterday that "I fixed it!", it was actually fixed "in
my mind" but not yet in reality.  I needed two several versions of
:ref:`atelier` before it was visible to the world.

Motivated by this action, I continued also today to work for getting
the test suites to pass on Travis. (There's is much to do outside as
well, and it suited me to work in chunks: do some fix, let Travis run
the tests while I was outside, then come back and see the results and
do some more fixes.

I removed the 'Sphinx<1.7.1' requirement for :ref:`atelier`, and it
still caused that failure during :cmd:`inv bd` in :ref:`book` which
made me add the requirement::

  SphinxWarning: .../lino/lino/core/site.py:docstring of lino.core.site:1:Literal block expected; none found.

It took me some time to find the explanation: I had docstrings of
type::

    """
    Blabla bla. 
    Usage example::
    
      site_config_defaults = dict(default_build_method='appypdf')

    """

And autosummary includes only the first paragraph of every docstring
into its summary table.  It's indeed a syntax error when you announce
a literal block which isn't there.  And Sphinx has obviously become
better in finding this error.

I also fixed more failures in Python 3 environment and, believe it or
not: the Lino Book test suite now passes on Travis in both Pythons!  A
historic day!

And then I attacked :ticket:`2296`, yet another mysterious failure in
:ref:`welfare`.  Happens only on Travis, not on my machine.  It had to
do with :attr:`SITE.site_config <lino.core.site.Site.site_config`, our
cached copy of SiteConfig. 
