:date: 2018-05-25

====================
Friday, May 25, 2018
====================

Main page is not refreshed when browser starts
==============================================

I opened :ticket:`2401` (Main page is not refreshed when browser
starts) and did some research.

I guess that the browser asks Lino whether that page needs to refresh,
and the server answers "No".  Because indeed the index page itself
rarely changes.


http://docs.sencha.com/extjs/3.4.0/#!/api/Ext.Viewport-event-staterestore

I read the topic guide about `Django’s cache framework
<https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.2/topics/cache>`__.

Yes, we do have the :setting:`CACHES` set on Jane with its default
value::

    {'default': {'BACKEND': 'django.core.cache.backends.locmem.LocMemCache'}}


But IFAICS we don't use Django's caching feature because we don't add
any middleware for it.  "Once the cache is set up, the simplest way to
use caching is to cache your entire site. You’ll need to add
'django.middleware.cache.UpdateCacheMiddleware' and
'django.middleware.cache.FetchFromCacheMiddleware' to your MIDDLEWARE
setting..."

`This thread on SO
<https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2095520/fighting-client-side-caching-in-django>`__
seems to indicate that Django's `never_cache` also adds page headers.

And how to do this in Lino? Aha, after reading
`Introduction to class-based views --> Decorating the class
<https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.2/topics/class-based-views/intro/#decorating-the-class>`__


::

    from django.views.decorators.cache import never_cache
    from django.utils.decorators import method_decorator

    @method_decorator(never_cache, name='dispatch')
    class AdminIndex(View):
        ...

Actually the problem is easily reproduceable on a development server:

- Run a development server in :mod:`lino_book.projects.team`.
  
- Go to http://127.0.0.1:8000/ using your default browser and sign in
  (as robin). Note one of the welcome messages says *You are busy with
  #1 (⚹ Föö fails to bar when baz) (■).*

- Make sure that your default browser is set up to re-open all tabs of
  previous session on startup.

- Close your default browser.
  
- Open a window of your alternative browser and sign in there as well
  as robin.
  
- Click the `(■)` in order to stop working. The *You are busy with #1*
  message disappears.
  
- Open your default browser (which will reopen the team index)
  
- The *You are busy with #1* message is still there.

The problem disappeared after adding `never_cache` to
:class:`lino.modlib.extjs.views.AdminIndex`.



Miscellaneous
=============

I made an upgrade on :ref:`lf`.

I fixed :ticket:`1951` (Merge `Site.actors` into `Site.models`):
Both names ``rt.actors`` and ``rt.modules`` are gone.
