:date: 2018-06-12

======================
Tuesday, June 12, 2018
======================

I did :ticket:`2402` (Site subscriptions instead of stars): I removed
the stars, meetings and deploy plugins from :ref:`noi` and added a new
model for "site subscriptions"
(:class:`lino_xl.lib.tickets.Subscription`).  This removed the fields
:attr:`Ticket.reported_for` and `Ticket.fixed_for`.  I deployed my
changes to :ref:`jane`.

Why the hell do I do this?  I kick away three plugins into which Tonis
and I had invested considerable time and energy.  Okay they are not
kicked away since they remain in :ref:`xl`.  But Jane was their only
production usage, and taking them out of production makes them
inactive, which might lead to their death in the future.  It's the
kind of change which were impossible if we were a democratically
managed team because I wouldn't dare to do it.  I would never find the
time to fully explain and discuss why I do it.

I try to enumerate at least the reasons why I do it: I do this as a
preparation for :ticket:`2408`.  I tidy up and remove unused features
that distract the end-user.  Nobody ever starred a single ticket.
Meetings and deployments were no longer used in practice.

The :xfile:`restore.py` process got killed while loading 15000 rows to
the `github_commit` table.  I worked around this by simply not loading
this table because anyway this are only cached information and will be
updated once per hour.  This incident means that the default value for
:option:`--max-row-count` should maybe change from 50000 to
e.g. 10000.

I did not automatically migrate existing stars into site
subscriptions, I just manually created subscriptions for the active
users.

I started to test whether notifications work as expected.  It's
possible that I introduced some regression bugs.

I observed that certain changes to a ticket were appearently not
notified even before the upgrade : direct changes in a database field
(e.g. the title of a ticket) and actions like e.g. change the state or
assign_to_me.


