:date: 2018-07-04

=======================
Wednesday, July 4, 2018
=======================

Copyright in the Digital Single Market
======================================

I asked my EU representatives to stop #CensorshipMachines.  Yesterday
for Belgium and now for Estonia.  I sent them an email using the
`saveyourinternet.eu` platform where they summarize the campaign as
follows: "On 20 June 2018, the European Parliament’s Legal Affairs
Committee adopted the dreadful Article 13 proposal by Rapporteur MEP
Axel Voss, during its vote on their Report on Copyright in the Digital
Single Market.  With this vote, 15 out of 25 MEPs have blatantly
ignored the calls of experts from all areas, as well as the 188.990
messages sent over two weeks by EU citizens using the
#SaveYourInternet tools, as well as the many thousands of others
conveyed through other platforms.  `Read more
<https://saveyourinternet.eu/the-european-parliament-legal-affairs-committee-voted-for-the-article-13-censorshipmachine-what-happens-next/>`__.

Some Wikipedias (including the `Estonian one
<https://wikimediaeesti.wordpress.com/2018/07/04/miks-vikipeedia-tana-kinni-on/>`__
are disabled today as a sign of protest against the copyright reform
in the EU.


I support these campaigns because they try to avoid yet another step
into the wrong direction.

The *right* direction is to alltogether remove the concept of
"intellectual property" from our legislations and to abolish property
rights on immaterial things, including text, music, movies and
patents.  Intellectual work is something you cannot "own".  When
published it becomes like the air and the sun: everybody may use it,
and nobody may spoil it.  Publishing an intellectual work should be
the irrevocable act of sharing your work with others and giving them
permission to use and share your work.  While legislations must
continue to protect the right of being identified and *honored* as the
author, we can't go on with counting the number of copies of an idea
in order to *reward* its author.  We must and we can use different
ways to reward authors for their creative work.

Yes, that's an utopic dream.  Even Creative Commons and Wikipedia
don't go that far.  Many people believe that it won't happen because
too much money depends on copyright.  It would probably require a team
of experts in different areas for explaining how it actually *can*
happen.  Or maybe such a team exists and I just don't know them?


More about the daily planner
============================

I reviewed and updated the specs about the :class:`DailyPlanner
<lino_xl.lib.cal.DailyPlanner>` in :ref:`book.specs.cal`. For
:ticket:`2382`.

TODO: :class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.Event` is clickable but
:class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.DailyPlanner` isn't.

As a side effect, the :attr:`seqno
<lino.mixins.sequenced.Sequenced.seqno>` field of a :class:`Sequenced
<lino.mixins.sequenced.Sequenced>` no longer has sums because I added
this line::
  
  Sequenced.set_widget_options('seqno', hide_sum=True)

  


