:date: 2018-07-19

=======================
Thursday, July 19, 2018
=======================

Lino Tera
=========

I am still busy with :ticket:`2364`.  Some tests are still failing,
don't panic.

One of the tasks of that ticket was interesting enough to move it into
its own ticket :ticket:`2441` (Better summary for
EntriesByCourse). I did this today. Here is the result:

.. image:: 0719.png

Before this, all dates were simply displayed sequentially.  The new
view has the evident disadvantage of not being responsive because I
use a table to arrange months and years.  But at the moment they don't
yet dream about using mobile devices.


Abolish the notion of intellectual property
===========================================

I started a petition to the European Commission: `Abolish the notion
of intellectual property
<https://you.wemove.eu/campaigns/abolish-the-notion-of-intellectual-property>`__
because I believe it is time to realize that copyright legislations
are drifting into the wrong direction.  If you agree with me, please
sign it and spread the word!

The petition is adressed to the European Commission because this is
the "sole EU institution tabling laws for adoption by the Parliament
and the Council that protect the interests of the EU and its citizens
on issues that can't be dealt with effectively at national level"
(source: `europa.eu
<https://europa.eu/european-union/about-eu/institutions-bodies/european-commission_en>`__
website).  Of course the issue is actually a world-wide one. But we
must start somewhere.  So I chose the European Commission because I
happen to live here and I believe that the European Union is a good
thing after all (if we admit that they are not perfect).


.. sigal_image:: /2018/06/10/dsc00263.jpg|wide|Raplamaa laulu- ja tantsupidu 2018

It's difficult to find a picture that visualizes the issue, but I
chose this one which is taken at a folk festival in Estonia.  Singing
and dancing together in public is just one of the many activities that
are encountering more and more legal obstacles caused by absurd
legislatives.

