:date: 2018-08-01

=========================
Wednesday, August 1, 2018
=========================

How to archive our chat history to Jane?
========================================

I opened ticket :ticket:`2467`.

Hamza, Tonis and I currently use Google Hangouts for chatting.  Our
main reason for using HO is that it offers everything we need (screen
sharing, voice conferences).  Why not use it?

The main problem is that we can't archive our chat history to Jane.  I
can search it online, but if Google decides to block my account, I am
excluded from seeing it.

There is a messenger called `Signal <https://signal.org/>`__ which
uses an open protocol. Should we start using it?  The protocol is
open, but it has no Python API. Somebody asked `How to use Whisper
Systems Signal with Python
<https://stackoverflow.com/questions/50933036/how-to-use-whisper-systems-signal-with-python>`__
on Stackoverflow but noboday answered.  So far.



For screen-sharing there are other possiblities
`How To Enable Desktop Sharing In Ubuntu and Linux Mint
<https://www.tecmint.com/enable-desktop-sharing-in-ubuntu-linux-mint/>`__

On Slant they ask `What is the best team chat software?
<https://www.slant.co/topics/1359/~team-chat-software>`__ and they
answer: `Slack <https://slack.com/intl/de>`__.  I installed the Slack
app on my Phone.  Slack ask 6€/user/month if you want a workspace with
unlimited search.  They also have a `python client
<https://github.com/slackapi/python-slackclient>`__. We might check if
it is possible to poll our chat history every day and store it in
Jane.

One thing seems clear: Telegram is not a candidat. See `Telegram vs
Signal
<https://www.reddit.com/r/privacy/comments/7fq16e/telegram_vs_signal/>`__

Hangouts also a Python API::

  pip install --upgrade google-api-python-client
  
Read `more about it
<https://developers.google.com/api-client-library/python/apis/chat/v1>`__.

My summary: next step is to try to poll our HO chat history with the
Google Python API.  If that is difficult, we can try the same for
Slack.


Optimizations for Lino Tera
===========================

I had a four hour training session with Vera.  We are entering
purchase invoices, including new partners and accounts, merge
partners.  I wrote down a nice list of ideas for optimizing her work
(yes sorry it's in German):

TODO:

- Pro Lieferant (und Journal?) sollte man angeben können, welches
  G-Konto Lino beim Buchen einer Rechnung in diesem Journal
  vorschlagen soll
  
- Wenn man neue EKR in Tabellenansicht entregistriert, dann
  Doppelklick macht, sie bearbeitet und im Detail registriert, und
  dann das Fenster schließt, dann wird die Tabellenansicht nicht
  aktualisiert.
  
- Im Dialogfenster von "Kopie erstellen", wenn man ein G-Konto
  eingibt, sollte Lino das A-Konto sofort ausfüllen.
  
- Im Inhalt einer EKR macht Lino nach jeder Eingabe in einer Zelle ein
  automatisches Refresh, dadurch geht der Cursor verloren. Lästig.
  
- Wenn man in der Liste aller EKR steht und eine davon entregistriert,
  dann aktualisert Lino die komplette Liste.  Was ein bisschen doof
  und zeitverschwenderisch ist.
 
- Wir hatten gelegentlich den Effekt, dass Lino den Bildschirm nicht
  aktualisierte. Bisher nicht reproduzierbar.
  
DONE:

- Nach MakeCopy ohne Betrag verändert Lino die Reihenfolge der Zeilen
  
- Wenn man eine EKR erstellt für einen Partner, dessen Land leer ist,
  dann meldet Lino "AttributeError: 'NoneType' object has no attribute
  'isocode'"
  
- Nach Ändern G-Konto in einer Rechnungszeile sollte Lino immer das
  A-Konto setzen (bestehenden Wert überschreiben)
  
- Wenn man eine EKR entregistriert, dann sollte Lino die Gesamtbeträge
  auf leer setzen und erst beim Registrieren wieder eintragen, weil
  die sonst irritieren.

Understanding and fixing :ticket:`2470` was a matter of 2 minutes, but
I also wrote a test case
:mod:`lino_book.projects.lydia.tests.test_makecopy` to cover it.


  
