:date: 2018-08-02

========================
Thursday, August 2, 2018
========================

I adapted some testcases in :ref:`welfare` that were still failing
after my recent code changes.

En passant I changed the :ref:`welfare.specs.checkdata` to use demo
project "eupen" instead of "std". (I plan to move all tests from std
to eupen or chatelet and then to remove std because that project has
no real-world usage).

Specifying a default invoice account of a partner
=================================================

In Lino you can now define the purchase invoice account of a partner.
This is the default value to use in invoices.

When the partner of an empty invoice has a purchase account, Lino now
automatically creates an invoice item using this account with empty
amount.

Vera our power tester
=====================

Another training session with Vera revealed another nice problem:

- MakeCopy and entering a narration with more than 200 characters.
  Actually the problem was that if an exception raises during a
  parameter action after submitting the ParamFormPanel
  (e.g. MakeCopy), Lino remains in the dialog window with active
  loadmask ("Please wait").
  

- There was a bug in the recently changed behaviour about setting the
  analytic account in invoice items from the general account:

  Wenn ich EKR mit Konto 454000 erfasse, dann sagt Lino "No analytic
  account".  Weil im Konto 454000 "Braucht AK" angekreuzt ist, aber
  "Analysekonto" leer ist.


Ticket :ticket:`2474` was a tricky one, and I fixed it with a very
simple code change in :xfile:`linoweb.js`.
:meth:`Lino.ActionFormPanel.on_ok` called
:func:`Lino.call_ajax_action` as follows::

      Lino.call_ajax_action(
          panel, 'GET', url, p, actionName, step, fn); //  , on_success);
      
Where the first parameter was `this.requesting_panel`.  I replaced
that `panel` by `self`.  This fixed the issue and made unnecessary the
manual calls to `loadMask.show()` and `loadMask.hide()` I introduced
on 20180727 because :func:`Lino.call_ajax_action` shows and hides the
loadmask if the panel has one.

I stumbled over another subtle bug : the help texts of the fields of
action dialog windows were not being installed.  Fixed.  Usage example
:class:`lino_xl.lib.ana.MakeCopy`.

I tested whether this change has side effects: running workflow
actions of a newly created record detail must refresh the screen.
Passed.


       
