:date: 2018-08-03

======================
Friday, August 3, 2018
======================

I couldn't restrain from fiddlling in the docs (:ref:`xl.specs.ana`
and :ref:`xl.specs.accounting`).

Hangout with Hamza
==================

Pronounciation:

- [paipi] : PyPI : Python Package Index
- [pip] : pip Python Installer
  
Hamza told me that also the test pypi requires a new release number
each time.  Which might become irritating because we might have lots
of pseudo releases when we start doing official releases.

Okay, we use a month-based version numbering (18.8.0 in August 2018),
and the minor version can go as high as needed.  We might add a
command-line option ``--test`` to :cmd:`inv release`.

But a better solution is to use our own server as a personalized
version of PyPI that has the particularity of permitting the files to
change without changing the version number:

  http://www.lino-framework.org/dl/

We tested this together.  It didn't work out of the box, I had to do
some minor changes in atelier (see :ref:`atelier.changes`).

Now we must document how we did this.  Here is what I explained to
Hamza:

- The  :xfile:`~/.invoke.py` file is used for local settings
- The :cmd:`inv sdist` command
  
- The :envvar:`sdist_dir` setting
- The :envvar:`docs_rsync_dest` setting

- The :cmd:`inv test_sdist` command

I changed the :envvar:`sdist_dir` in my :xfile:`~/.invoke.py` 
from ``'/home/luc/work/book/docs/dl'``
to ``'/home/luc/work/book/docs/dl/{prj}'``.

So when I run :cmd:`pp inv sdist`, it will build a zip file of style
project-18.8.x.tar.gz for every project.
  
So we use twine only when test_sdist has passed for all projects

It seems that we need to split the developer's guide : one for core
developers and one for application developers.

- /docs/dev  : Core Developer's Guide
- /docs/appdev : Application Developer's Guide

For example the "Diving into Lino" and "Getting aquaintaned" sections
are for application developers.





Misc optimizations in Lino Noi
==============================

It started with two little changes I wanted to do for Jane:

- TicketsToTriage : replace topic by site

- Certain state transitions are now allowed only when the ticket has a
  site

En passant I did this:  

- I removed projects from demo fixture and replaced the series of ugly
  "Ticket 1" ticket summaries to a cycling of more textual summaries.
  Of course there were some doctest failures afterwards.

Then I decided to also attack this one:  

The :class:`lino_xl.lib.working.working.WorkedHours` table was being displayed in the
dashboard, but clicking the ⏏ button causes an error
:message:`Uncaught TypeError: Cannot read property 'grid' of
undefined` in the JavaScript console.

I added :class:`working.WorkedHours` as a menu item to the user menu,
with the same result.

I noticed that it is a VentilatingTable.  And that
:meth:`js_render_window_action` was never called for this.  And then I
found the explanation: VirtualTables weren't registered correctly.  I
added some text and code snippets in :ref:`dev.actors` while exploring
this.  And then I had an inspiration about who to reorganize this part
of the Lino startup which was really very chaotic.  Now it is more
clear, and it's documented and tested in :ref:`dev.actors`.  Nice!
Lino has become more beautiful!


I noticed that the ui5 demo project used the database of the team
project.  But it adds :mod:`lino_xl.lib.stars`.  So there is one model
more.  That's caused the :ref:`noi.specs.db` test to fail depending on
where :cmd:`inv prep` had been done last (because ContentTypes
contained sometimes 57 sometimes 66 rows.


Split the Developer's Guide
===========================

This morning Hamza and I realized that we need to split the
developer's guide: one for core developers and one for application
developers.  My first suggestion this morning was:

- /docs/dev  : Core Developer's Guide
- /docs/appdev : Application Developer's Guide

But after thinking at it I now think that we can simply convert the
existing User's Guide into that guide for application developers.
After all they are users of Lino.  And a guide for end-users is anyway
something impossible (such documentation must be done per application,
not for the framework).

I quickly did this and published my first draft.  I like it, the whole
idea seems correct, but of cours it needs revision because the user's
guide should no longer expect people to have a clone of the
:ref:`book` installed.
