:date: 2018-08-22

==========================
Wednesday, August 22, 2018
==========================

Lino soon installable via pip
=============================

Hamza got :ticket:`` almost done.
I assigned


Ubuntu 18.08
============

Yesterday I finally upgraded Ubuntu from 16.04 to 18.04 on my
:ref:`doll`. :ticket:`2540`.

Using Gnome Ubuntu Desktop:

- It says "Wed 17:17" in the top panel.  I'd prefer it to be "Wed
  2018-08-22 17:17".  Changing the format of that clock is not
  trivial, it requires manual installation of a `datetime-format
  <https://github.com/Daniel-Khodabakhsh/datetime-format>`__, and then
  I could run `gnome-tweaks`.  (See also `askubuntu.com
  <https://askubuntu.com/questions/312138/how-do-i-change-the-date-format-in-gnome-3-shell>`__).

- How can I add a new icon in that launcher bar on the left side?
  Find it using the launcher and then right click and select "Add to
  favourites"

- And oops, :kbd:`Alt+SPACE, x` had always and everywhere been my
  shortcut for maximizing a window, and :kbd:`Alt+SPACE, n` for
  minimizing it.  But now it's gone!

Xubuntu (xfce desktop)


Lessons about project management from OpenStack
===============================================

In his blog post `Planting Acorns
<https://doughellmann.com/blog/2018/08/21/planting-acorns/>`__, Doug
Hellmann writes about "how the governance of an open source project
impacts the health of the project" and formulates "some lessons we
learned in building the OpenStack community that can be applied to
other projects".  He gives 9 rules of thumb:

#. Think Long term
#. Organize Around People
#. Document Your Culture
#. Build Consensus
#. Set Common Goals
#. Create Decision Making Processes
#. Enable Others
#. Embrace Economic Reality
#. Create New Leaders

Interesting. Will influence the Lino project.
