:date: 2018-08-29

==========================
Wednesday, August 29, 2018
==========================

New plugin :ref:`xl.specs.sheets`
=================================

I published more than four days of work for :ticket:`2510`.  The
following is a summary of the changes.

**Fiscal years** are now stored in the database instead of being a
choicelist. :class:`lino_xl.lib.ledger.FiscalYear` is now a model.

New plugin :mod:`lino_xl.lib.sheets` documented in
:ref:`xl.specs.sheets`.  Changes in :ref:`xl.specs.ledger`.

I discovered a cool and well-hidden bug.  The virtual fields
:attr:`debit <lino_xl.lib.ledger.Movement.debit>` and :attr:`credit
<lino_xl.lib.ledger.Movement.credit>` said the opposite of what they
should say.  A movement with :attr:`dc
<lino_xl.lib.ledger.Movement.dc>` having `True` was shown in the
"Credit" column and vice versa.  As a result, the
:attr:`lino_xl.lib.ledger.Journal.dc` in demo data were wrong because
I configured their value based on the debit and credit in generated
movements.  And consequently all `dc` fields theoretically need to get
inverted.  In a later commit I changed the values of :data:`DEBIT
<lino_xl.lib.accounts.utils.DEBIT>` and :data:`CREDIT
<lino_xl.lib.accounts.utils.CREDIT>`.  Otherwise I would have had to
write a script for :ref:`tera` which inverts the :attr:`dc` of all
existing movements and vouchers and journals in existing production
sites.

TODO:

- Add a summary table with one row per AccountingPeriod and Account?
  IOW do with AccountingPeriod the same as with FiscalYear.

- Add a feature to explicitly specify the app_label of a
  `DetailLayout`.  This would make it possible that `sheets` redefines
  the default `accounts.AccountDetail`.

Side effects
============
  
Later I also merged :mod:`lino_xl.lib.accounts` into
:mod:`lino_xl.specs.ledger` (:ticket:`2514`).


  
