:date: 2018-09-02 23:59

=========================
Sunday, September 2, 2018
=========================

When to bump version numbers
============================

With Hamza I have been thinking about when to update our
:xfile:`setup_info.py` files.  We are at the beginning of September so
the version 18.8 is no longer correct, is it?  Should I change the
version numbers in those files to 18.9 already now?  But what if there
will be no release at all in September?

Hamza: We could say that we publish version at the end of the month.
Version 18.9 then means Lino versions released after the work of the
09 month has been done, not before.

Luc: The problem is that maybe there is no reason at all to do a
release for a given month.  I think we should do a release only when
there is a new feature that is worth doing the effort.

Hamza: Ok, yes.  We do a new release of each new milestone.

Luc: one problem then is: what is a milestone?

Hamza: Maybe for at least 3 months would be more reasonable.

Luc: Currently I guess that there will be a release in September
because of the new accounting report I am working on...

Hamza: ... and official support for Python 3 and Django 2.

Luc: Yes, there is hope that this will be done before end of
September.  But "hope" does not mean that we will actually get there.
Maybe it will be finished only in October.

I would now say: let's leave the 18.8 in our :xfile:`setup_info.py`
files until we really started the next release.

Hamza: Ok I think its the best idea.


How to test database migrations
===============================

At the moment we are just playing (as long as there is nobody
providing :ref:`stable hosting <stable_hosting>`), but I would like to
start playing seriously.  I opened ticket :ticket:`2522`.

Sphinxfeed not publishing to RSS feed
=====================================

I noticed that the RSS feeds of my blogs have been empty for the last
week.  That was because when restoring my virtualenvs (after I
upgraded to Ubuntu 18.04) I accidentally installed the `official
version of sphinxfeed <https://github.com/junkafarian/sphinxfeed>`__.
I had forgotten that I use `my own fork
<https://github.com/lsaffre/sphinxfeed>`__ of this project.

In August 2016 I submitted an upstream `pull request
<https://github.com/junkafarian/sphinxfeed/pulls>`__ to have the
official version support what I want to have, but so far there is no
reaction to this.  The maintainer is `Fergus Doyle
<https://pypi.org/user/Fergus.Doyle/>`__.  I guess that `this
<http://www.fergusdoyle.ie/>`__ is his homepage.  I can imagine that
he did this project once in his young years and that life went on and
now he has not much motivation to maintain it.

Now I did yet another new feature: add posts to RSS only when
publication time is *after* current time.  This fixes my following
problem: Many RSS readers do not check whether an item they have
imported earlier has been updated meanwhile.  This is a problem for me
because I tend to run :cmd:`inv bd` several times a day on my blogs.
So once a follower has downloaded the first version of a blog entry
they won't see any update.  OTOH I *want* to publish at least on my
website (not necessarily in the RSS feed) several times per day. I
could add the `:date:` field only when I really finished the day, but
I know myself: I will forget this.  I fixed this by introducing a new
rule: blog posts which *do* have a publication date are still *not*
published if that date is after today.  And if they don't have a
publication time specified, sphinxfeed assumes "23:59" as the time.
As a result, I now can run :cmd:`inv bd` as often as I want, Tonis and
Hamza get the latest version when they point their browser to my blog,
but RSS readers get them only the next day.

The change is in `b76b753853
<https://github.com/lsaffre/sphinxfeed/commit/b76b7538536a0d495a457b2eb61ceb26a003375e>`__.

The following were some preliminary tests.

>>> import time
>>> fmt = '%Y-%m-%d %H:%M'
>>> pubdate = "2018-09-02 23:59"
>>> # pubdate = "2018-09-01 23:59"
>>> pd = time.strptime(pubdate, fmt)
>>> pd  #doctest: +SKIP
time.struct_time(tm_year=2018, tm_mon=9, tm_mday=2, tm_hour=23, tm_min=59, tm_sec=0, tm_wday=6, tm_yday=245, tm_isdst=-1)
>>> time.gmtime()  #doctest: +SKIP
time.struct_time(tm_year=2018, tm_mon=9, tm_mday=2, tm_hour=4, tm_min=35, tm_sec=46, tm_wday=6, tm_yday=245, tm_isdst=0)
>>> pd > time.gmtime()
True
>>> pd < time.gmtime()
False


I will sent a mail to Fergus, asking him about his plans with the
sphinxfeed project.

