:date: 2018-09-17

==========================
Monday, September 17, 2018
==========================

This week-end I realized that I cannot add a new calendar entry state
"missed" for all applications and change the symbol for "cancelled"
from "☒" to "⚕" because the :ref:`welfare` and :ref:`avanti` users
will complain.  But :ref:`tera` needs this. It wasn't trivial to
change it only for tera.  When defining workflows, we need to
differentiate between the choicelists (used to define the states) and
the transitions (used to define actions from one state to another
state).  Until now we often define the choicelists together with their
transition because this is easier to maintain.  But this use case is
an example for why it is better to separate them.

That's the reason why in the beginning we had two site attributes
:attr:`workflows_module <lino.core.site.Site.workflows_module>` and
:attr:`lino.core.site.Site.choicelists_module`.  The difference was
just the time of loading during kernel startup.

A workaround for the moment was to redefine the button_text in the
:attr:`user_types_module <lino.core.site.Site.user_types_module>`.

I am not yet sure how to make this more elegantly.  Probably bring
back the :attr:`lino.core.site.Site.choicelists_module` and have it
simply be imported just before the :attr:`workflows_module
<lino.core.site.Site.workflows_module>`.

I noticed that the documentation about workflows was very bad and
obsolete.  I reviewed :ref:`workflows` and converted the
:file:`/docs/tutorials/workflows_tutorial` to
:mod:`lino_book.projects.workflows`.

Ticket :ticket:`2492` is not finished, but I adapted the test suites
and pushed my work because before continuing on this ticket I must now
work for :ticket:`2531`.
