:date: 2018-09-19

=============================
Wednesday, September 19, 2018
=============================

autodoc_default_flags is now deprecated
=======================================

We got an exception :message:`SphinxWarning: autodoc_default_flags is
now deprecated. Please use autodoc_default_options instead.` on two
different places at the same day:

- https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/book/jobs/430149478
- https://github.com/lsaffre/dblog/issues/1
  
But on my machine no problem.  The problem seems to be that
:mod:`rstgen.sphinxconf` sets wrong default settings for autodoc.  At
first I suspected something going wrong with the code that tests
whether Sphinx is before 1.8 or not.

>>> from distutils.version import LooseVersion
>>> import sphinx
>>> sphinx.__version__
'1.8.0'
>>> LooseVersion(sphinx.__version__)
LooseVersion ('1.8.0')
>>> LooseVersion("1.8.0") < LooseVersion('1.8')
False

But Aris confirmed that above code runs on his machine as well as on
mine.

Ha! The explanation is simple: the change that checks for the Sphinx
version was not yet released!  Now I released atelier 1.1.9.  See
:ref:`atelier.changes`.


Sphinx 1.8 causes UnicodeDecodeError in feedformatter
=====================================================

I am still getting :message:`UnicodeDecodeError: 'ascii' codec can't
decode byte 0xc3 in position 7: ordinal not in range(128)`
(:ticket:`2534`).  I thought that ``os.environ['LC_TIME'] =
'en_GB.UTF-8'`` in my :xfile:`conf.py` would fix it, but that was a
mistake (the problem occurs only in my blog, and ATM I can avoid it
only by saying ``export LC_TIME=en_GB.UTF-8`` before running :cmd:`inv
bd`.

I still don't understand why Sphinx (as it seems) changes the Python
locale, but I understand that the Sphinx developers probably have more
urgent problems than discussing this.  And actually it is mainly a
problem in feedformatter.  Fixing it seems trivial, but how will I get
this to PyPI?  So now I contacted the author Luke Maurits:

    Hi Luke,

    thanks for your work on `feedformatter
    <https://pypi.org/project/feedformatter/>`__. I see in the `Google
    code archive <https://code.google.com/archive/p/feedformatter/>`__
    that your priority for maintaining this project is
    low. Understandable. Now I have a subtle problem with
    feedformatter, and I would submit a patch. But before doing so, I
    wanted to ask you whether you still agree to maintain the
    project. Because I also see that other people have `forked it on
    GitHub
    <https://github.com/tlevine/feedformatter/network/members>`__.



Lino Tera
=========

I continued to work on :ticket:`2492` but without pushing anything.

