:date: 2018-09-22

============================
Saturday, September 22, 2018
============================

First upgrade attempt after more than 15 months
===============================================

Yesterday we had our first upgrade attempt of the :ref:`cpaseupen`
production site after more than 15 months without any update (their
last update was 2017-05-30).  I had been preparing this coup
technically during more than 11 hours since Monday, most of the time
in the evenings.  I now also reviewed the docs in
:ref:`hosting.preview` to document this procedure.

The challenge with the :ref:`cpaseupen` site is that they have so many
users that it becomes difficult to decide for them whether they want
an upgrade or not.  They had a preview of the new version in a in
:ref:`testing site <hosting.preview>` which has been running there for
years, but they don't use it very much.  Normal Lino users want to do
their work, they don't like unproductive meta-work like testing and
reporting problems.

So we had to figure out how to force them into the new version.  We
scheduled a server downtime on Friday from 12.30 to 14.00 followed by
a testing phase from 14.00 to 15.00.  Within that hour they detected
10 issues, of which we fixed 4 immediately.  But the other issues need
more time, so we decided to cancel the upgrade.

Everything worked like a charm, except for the psychological community
work. Their community has accumulated some frustration and fears
during the last 15 months where nothing was changing.  We can now hope
that the administrative problems are fixed and that confidence and
trust in Lino can grow back among the end-users.
