:date: 2018-09-26

=============================
Wednesday, September 26, 2018
=============================

I got feedback for the 4 tickets of last Friday.  I first had a look
into :ticket:`2549` which looked most dangerous.  Actually it was
harmless: just a permission problem.  Social workers werde not able to
see ISIP contracts.  This unwanted change was probably caused by a
redesign in the the welfare user roles hierarchy which was still
obsolete: it had too many levels.  Welfare started in the beginning of
Lino where the permission system was still quite young.  Meanwhile I
learned that user roles should be atomic, and their grouping should be
done in the user_types module.  I had started to convert to the flat
hierarchy when chatelet asked things but I didn't do a full review
because it is so complex and so "dangerous": end-users tend to get
angry when you remove permissions that had been granted earlier.

Now I did a full review and removed all intermediate user roles from
Lino Welfare.  I restructured the docs (:ref:`welfare.usertypes`)
before asking the users to test again.

At some point I had a TypeError :message:`Cannot create
a consistent method resolution order (MRO)` and was stuck. I had to
write a new utility function `lino.core.proles.checkmro` to find the
duplicate parent.

The test suite is still failing with at least one case where I don't
yet understand why it now fails.  Nevertheless I will push my changes
because we want to test using eidreader from behind a proxy.  There
are chances that this restructuration introduced new regressions of
type "I had this permission before" or the opposite "I can see this
now though I shouldn't have permission".


Using eidreader from behind a proxy
===================================

I changed the configuration for :mod:`lino_xl.lib.beid`: instead of
setting :Attr:`lino.core.site.Site.beid_protocol` to ``'beid'`` you
now set :attr:`lino_xl.lib.beid.Plugin.urlhandler_prefix`


http://docs.python-requests.org/en/master/user/advanced/#proxies
