:date: 2018-09-28

==========================
Friday, September 28, 2018
==========================

Adresse Empfänger in Bescheinigungen
====================================

Wow, it took me some time to find the explanation for the following
problem (:ticket:`2554`):

- (melanie) Inhalt der Bescheinigungen: Adressfeld ist
  versetzt/verschwunden!  Layout nicht ok!

Lag daran, dass :mod:`etgen.html` seit :doc:`0308` lxml-Elemente
benutzt und die Syntax ``class_="Recipient"`` deshalb ersetzt werden
muss durch die neue Syntax ``**{'class':"Recipient"}``.  Das heißt
auch, dass die `*.odt`-Dateien jetzt nicht mehr gesyncht werden
sollten, also muss ich die :xfile:`initdb_testing_from_prod.sh` lokal
anpassen. Das erwies sich aber als eher aufwändig, deshalb muss ich
einfach dran denken, nach dem Synch die Datei
:xfile:`excerpts/Default.odt` manuell anzupassen.

Ich habe das gefunden, nachdem ich den Fall in
:ref:`welfare.specs.excerpts` dokumentiert hatte. Dazu habe ich dem
Roten Kreuz in den Demo-Daten eine Adresse verpasst.


Formatierung Tabellen in Budgets Schuldnerberatung
==================================================

The :xfile:`debts/Budget/Default.odt` template uses the :func:`story`
function to insert a stream of "story chunks" produced by methods on
the :class:`Budget <lino_welfare.modlib.debts.Budget>` object. These
chunks are processed by :meth:`story2odt
<lino_xl.lib.appy_pod.appy_renderer.AppyRenderer.story2odt>` which
calls :meth:`insert_table
<lino_xl.lib.appy_pod.appy_renderer.AppyRenderer.insert_table>` for
each table in the stream.  :meth:`insert_table
<lino_xl.lib.appy_pod.appy_renderer.AppyRenderer.insert_table>`
dynamically creates odf tables and respects the widths it gets from
the request's :meth:`get_field_info
<lino.core.tablerequest.TableRequest.get_field_info>`, which returns
`col.width or col.preferred_width` for each column.

I played a bit with the appy renderer in order to remind me how it all
works internally. (Yes, I wrote it myself, but this was years ago.)


>>> from lino import startup
>>> startup('lino_welfare.projects.eupen.settings.doctests')
>>> from lino.api.doctest import *
>>> from etgen.html import tostring
>>> from lino_xl.lib.appypod.appy_renderer import AppyRenderer
>>> from lxml import etree

>>> ar = rt.login('robin')
>>> ctx = {}
>>> rnd = AppyRenderer(ar, "empty.odt", ctx, "out.odt")

Appy is not very testing friendly.  Above line requires a file
:file:`empty.odt` just some empty but valid LO document, and every
test run will create a temporary directory.

>>> obj = debts.Budget.objects.get(pk=1)
>>> story = obj.data_story(ar)
>>> odf = rnd.insert_story(story)
>>> # print(odf)

The story contains a sequence of `<header>` and `<table>` elements,
but no root element.  That's a problem for the parser.  So we wrap the
story for them.

>>> odf = "<foo>" + odf + "</foo>"
>>> # from io import BytesIO
>>> # stream = BytesIO(odf.encode("utf-8"))
>>> # tree = etree.parse(stream)
>>> # root = tree.getroot()
>>> root = etree.fromstring(odf)
>>> children = list(root)
>>> table = children[1]
>>> table  #doctest: +ELLIPSIS
<Element {urn:oasis:names:tc:opendocument:xmlns:table:1.0}table at ...>

>>> columns, headers, rows = tuple(table)
>>> for col in columns:
...    etree.tostring(col)
...    print(col.get("table:style-name"))

>>> for child in root:
...     print(child.tag)
>>> print(odf)
>>> tree = etree.fromstring(odf)
>>> tree


I finally simply added width specifiers to the column_names in the
tables that are getting printed there.  Including a new constant
``AMOUNT_WIDTH`` in :mod:`lino_welfare.modlib.debts.choicelists`.
Currently it is set to ``":15"`` which seems to give good results.  I
also decreased the right page margin in
:xfile:`debts/Budget/Default.odt` from 20 to 10 mm.


Django 2 support is advancing
=============================

Hamza and I had a session where we fixed `a failure on Travis
<https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/book/jobs/433714519#L3781>`__:

- 2018-09-28 20:15 in *book*:
  `be32b6b <https://github.com/lino-framework/book/commit/926bcd5f8344b02df6792f3caa32e414ebe32b6b>`__
  (fixing failures py2to3 ajax.rst django.request logger level)

Django 2 has become more eager about logging every request, including
failed ones.  This is of course disturbing when we want a testable doc
that works for both Django 1 and 2.  So in :ref:`book.specs.ajax` we
simply disable logging.
