:date: 2018-10-13

==========================
Saturday, October 13, 2018
==========================


Lino becoming big
=================

There are so many exciting and important meetings happening during my
stay here in Eupen!  I met with Olivier, Elmar, Daniel (and his
coleagues), Annabell, Sandra and her colleagues, Ellie, Paul, Alexa...

Lino is on the threshold of becoming a framework for delivering free
database applications also to bigger customers.  We have done quite
some work on our way from a "family-sized" to an "industry-standard"
deployment process.  Many doors are open.  I asked several people to
pray for Lino and our little community and for me as their current
shepherd: May God help me to do the right decisions about my precise
role in all this is, and to meet the right people as advisors, and
that the right people may join the project.

Several impulses came in return:

- Private meetings with Bruno, Thierry and Jörg.
- Despite all business duties I managed to find time to translate a
  `prayer for the beatification of archbishop Eduard Profittlich
  <https://www.katoliku.ee/index.php/et/esyndmused/etunnistused/1596-palve-jumala-sulase-peapiiskop-eduard-profittlichi-sj-%C3%B5ndsakskuulutamise-eest>`__
  from Estonian to German.
- I was invited to an event `Aufrecht im Gegenwind
  <https://shop.publik-forum.de/shop/Default.asp?suchbegriff=3165&nwlid=5941&nwlti=Aufrecht+im+Gegenwind%3A+Unsere+Einladung&idw=20189335>`__
  in Berlin.  I won't be able to participate, but perceive the
  invitation itself as an encouragement.

- I stumbled over Valentino Gagliardi's tutorial `Django REST with
  React (Django 2.0 and a sprinkle of testing)
  <https://www.valentinog.com/blog/tutorial-api-django-rest-react/>`__
  and its equivalent `Building Web Applications with Django and
  AngularJS <https://thinkster.io/django-angularjs-tutorial>`__ by
  James Brewer on `Thinkster <https://thinkster.io/about>`__
  

