:date: 2018-10-24

===========================
Wednesday, October 24, 2018
===========================

Lino test suites again passing for Python 2
===========================================

Uff, :ticket:`2592` seems finally done.  I waited patiently until the
test suite for book was passing, but still required a second checkin
because `Travis signaled
<https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/book/jobs/445429044>`__ that
:cmd:`inv bd` failed.  Yes of course: building the docs is an integral
part of the test!

I deployed to :ref:`jane` just to have it tested on the field.  This
change will be in the production release for :ref:`avanti` on
Thursday evening.

On Thursday afternoon we plan the big production release for
:ref:`cpaseupen`.  After the failed attempt on :doc:`0921` this is now
the first release using the new "Safe" mode: I will *not* pull any new
version to the source code, just run :xfile:`initdb_from_testing` a
last time and then switch the testing environment to production.

A typical problem on Jane is that I must restart the Apache before
running :cmd:`pm dump2py` because otherwise my process gets killed::

    $ python manage.py dump2py -o t
    Writing /usr/local/python/lino_sites/jane/t/restore.py...
    Killed#####################      ] 49/59 - 00:00:05

Note that another possibility in such cases is to specify another
`-m` `--max-row-count` (Maximum number of rows per file).

More changes in Lino Tera
=========================

I continued to work on :ticket:`2579`. Updated :ref:`tera.coming`.

The :attr:`team` field is now no longer per Partner and Journal but
per Course.

Some subtle changes also in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.courses`.

auto_update_calendar


My first deployment in a non-master branch
==========================================

This time I tried to not bother Hamza with my work. So I now work in a
branch.  First I created the new branch::

  $ git checkout -b devel

Then I must publish my branch::

    $ git push -u origin devel
  
Then, on the customer's site::

    $ git checkout devel

I did this in xl, book and tera.
Later I noticed that my changes also cause welfare 
