:date: 2018-10-25

==========================
Thursday, October 25, 2018
==========================

"Active" versus "Exposed" course states
=======================================

.. currentmodule:: lino_xl.lib.courses

I wrote some documentation about :ref:`specs.courses` and fixed a
vocabulary problem which had been existing for a while but turned out
to be particulaily disturbing for :ref:`tera`:

We have the concept of "active" course states.  People can ask to to
see only "active" courses.  This is a default filter parameter for
quite some views.  Certain course states are considered "active" and
therefore visible by default in these views.

The problem with this concept is that it was called "active".  The
word "active" is quite popular as a course *state* as well.  So I
changed the name of the state *attribute* to "exposed".

I renamed :attr:`CourseState.active` to
:attr:`CourseState.is_exposed`, and accordingly
:attr:`Courses.show_active` to :attr:`Courses.show_exposed`.


Cannot show "editable" property of a workflow state
===================================================

There was another name clash regarding workflow states:
:class:`lino.mixins.registrable.Registrable` requires its state field
to have a property :attr:`is_editable
<lino.mixins.registrable.RegistrableState.is_editable>` instead of
:attr:`editable`.  An attribute :attr:`editable
<lino.core.actor.Actor.editable>` exists also on actors, and
choicelists are actors.
                   
      
      
Jane was slow
=============

Jane was slow because something was using up memory on :ref:`sr`::

    $ free -h
                     total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
        Mem:          1.9G       1.9G        60M        39M       500K        41M
        -/+ buffers/cache:       1.8G       102M
        Swap:         1.0G       1.0G         0B

After a reboot it was better::

    $ free -h
                 total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
        Mem:          1.9G       1.0G       945M       5.7M        37M       211M
        -/+ buffers/cache:       767M       1.2G
        Swap:         1.0G         0B       1.0G

We'll see whether the problem comes back.


inv release should create a branch, not a tag
=============================================

I created :ticket:`2599` and asked Google about "git tag vs branch".
And indeed, `stackoverflow.com
<https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1457103/how-is-a-tag-different-from-a-branch-in-git-which-should-i-use-here>`__
confirmed my feeling:

    Q: How is a tag different from a branch in Git? Which should I
    use, here?

    A: A tag represents a version of a particular branch at a moment
    in time. A branch represents a separate thread of development that
    may run concurrently with other development efforts on the same
    code base. Changes to a branch may eventually be merged back into
    another branch to unify them. (...)


I used :ref:`algus` as a guinea pig.  But the work is not finished.

A historic release for :ref:`cpaseupen`
=======================================

Today, one month after the last release attempt, we finally managed to
get them to the new version.  :ref:`cpaseupen` is one of our biggest
sites, and it was an exciting challenge to develop the "secure release
procedure" (explained under :ref:`hosting.preview`).  Lino is reaching
the next level.  Thanks to Gerd and Steve for their rigourous and
competent help.


Release :ref:`avanti`
=====================

As if the release in :ref:`cpaseupen` wasn't enough, and as a contrast, I
also did an upgrade of the :ref:`avanti` production site in a one-step
procedure (explained under :ref:`admin.upgrade`).  Tonis watched me
and had no problems to understand what was going on.

Data migration:

- User.timezone is now User.time_zone
- create_comments_comment as described in blog/2018/0219.rst

Miscellaneous changes during manual testing on production data.  For
example the default value for `CourseStates.auto_generate_calendar` is
now `False`.

Release on :ref:`lf`
====================

Tomorrow I plan a Lino presentation to Thierry, probably using our
public :ref:`demos`.  So I did a third deployment in one day: upgrade
on :ref:`lf`.  This one is simple and runs unattended.  Just a global
:cmd:`git pull` followed by a :manage:`prep`.
