:date: 2018-10-30

=========================
Tuesday, October 30, 2018
=========================

We realized that I forgot to adapt a cron job on :doc:`1025` when we
released the new version in cpaseupen.  As a result, b2c bank statements
did not yet get imported automatically.  At that occasion Gerd and I
realized that importing them once a day at 6:38 was not enough.  Gerd
asked me write documenation about all this stuff.

So I wrote documentation about the :mod:`lino_cosi.lib.b2c` plugin
(:ref:`welfare.specs.b2c` and :ref:`specs.cosi.b2c`).  I drove me
almost mad: I tried to test the menu path of the
:class:`lino_cosi.lib.b2c.ImportStatements` action.  It failed, and I
before realizing that it was "just" because the demo projects have an
empty :attr:`import_statements_path
<lino_cosi.lib.b2c.Plugin.import_statements_path>` I had optimized the
API for :func:`show_menu_path <lino.api.doctest.show_menu_path>`
(Which I deprecated and replaced by
:meth:`lino.core.requests.BaseRequest.show_menu_path`).  And I
converted :ref:`welfare.specs.b2c` so that it uses
:mod:`lino_welfare.projects.eupen` instead of
:mod:`lino_welfare.projects.std`.  Which required a bugfix in
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.finan.fixtures.payments` because this fixture
created a SEPA account for *every* partner, leading to duplicate
partners per account because there are more Belgian partners than
sample IBAN accounts.

I still far from being satisfied with the documentation.  Writing
documentation is *really* time-consuming.  At least if you let *me* do
it ;-)

