:date: 2018-10-31

===========================
Wednesday, October 31, 2018
===========================

I checked in my yesterday's work for documenting the
:mod:`lino_xl.lib.b2c` plugin.

At 8:23 the tests were passing again and I checked in all repos before
doing more changes.

Move welfare specs from welfare to book
=======================================

I then did a fundamental change: I moved the :file:`docs/specs` from
welfare to :file:`docs/specs/welfare` in book.  :ticket:`2622`

And of course I also moved the demo projects from welfare to book÷
:mod:`lino_welfare.projects.eupen` 
becomes
:mod:`lino_book.projects.gerd`
(and :mod:`lino_welfare.projects.chatelet`
becomes
:mod:`lino_book.projects.mathieu`),
and the modlibs of these projects are now in 
:mod:`lino_welfare.eupen` and
:mod:`lino_welfare.chatelet`.

This turned out to be a historic step for Lino: This is what I have
been looking for during the last years!  I finally understood how I
will manage to provide readable specifications for all Lino
applications.  The missing pieces were:

- Specs must be understandable by non-programmers.  Also for
  application developers they provide an important introduction into
  what a given plugin does. More about specs in :ref:`dev.specs`.

- As long as Lino applications are being maintained by one team, we
  must not separate them into different doctrees because it is
  important that the spec page for the contacts plugin in welfare can
  link to the general contacts spec.  And that a general spec like
  courses can link to its specializations.
  
- The specs are going to be what Annabell and Olivier want us to
  provide as part of their maintenance contract.

- I still need to convince them to accept the specs in English.  They
  want it in German, but at least in 2019 it would be utopic to have
  the specs translated since it is going to evolve much during the
  next months.  We should provide documentation in German about how to
  use the specs.


:ref:`welfare.specs.countries`


