:date: 2018-11-02

========================
Friday, November 2, 2018
========================

I did some last optimizations in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.working`.

The problem occured when a site was being reported whose
:attr:`description <lino_xl.lib.tickets.Site.description>` was not
empty.  The description of some internal sites are not only not empty,
their description also contain memo commands.


Lino Tera continued
===================

To fix :ticket:`2610`, I added a new user role
:class:`lino_xl.lib.topics.roles.TopicsUser`.

I converted the docs for :mod:`lino_xl.lib.topics` to prosa.
There was no demo data yet about topics in tera.
I updated :mod:`lino_tera.lib.tera.fixtures.demo`.

I added a section "The detail view of a therapy" in
:ref:`tera.specs.courses` in order to verify that
:ticket:`2610` is fixed.

I had a look at several new tickets reported by Gregor:

:ticket:`2627`: The incorrect **City** is caused by :ticket:`2628`, an
old and well-known but not reproducible bug.

The **Age** field of patients is indeed empty in lydia.  I checked
:ref:`lino.specs.human`.  Everything seems okay there.  Some debuggin
grevealed that the data is correctly passed, and :func:`my_loadRecord`
in :xfile:`linoweb.js` correctly calls :func:`setValue` for the field.
This is another reproducible bug that Hamza can fix in the extjs3 ui.

How to reproduce: go lyldia, sign in as robin, select Contacts -->
Patients, double click on some patient with a birth date, select the
"Address" tab panel.  The field "Age" is empty.

:ticket:`2629` is caused by a problem in spzloader2 : `PAR->Name2` was
not imported.

:ticket:`2631` (VirtualField has no attribute get_col)
GuestsByPartner.when

:ticket:`2633` Database change in `lino_xl.lib.cal`: both GuestRole
and EventType are now Referrable.  The additional :attr:`ref` field
won't disturb in :ref:`avanti` and :welfare` and :ref:`voga`.  Of
course the usage should be optional.


More ideas for Lino Noi
=======================

Tonis reported :ticket:`2624`, and he will work on it and then make
the next release to Jane.  I updated the release notes in 
:ref:`noi.coming`.

I started :ticket:`2635`.
