:date: 2018-11-19

=========================
Monday, November 19, 2018
=========================


List of changes in this series of commits:


Changes visible to end-users

- Lots of changes in :mod:`lino_xl.lib.invoicing`.

- The first column ("When") of
  :class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.EntriesByController` now opens the detail of
  that calendar entry (instead of a table with all entries of that day).

- The Save button is now the last button of the toolbar
  (sort_index changed from 10 to 100)

- New field type :class:`lino.core.fields.TimeField` New site
  attributes :attr:`calendar_start_hour
  <lino.core.site.Site.calendar_start_hour>` and
  :attr:`calendar_end_hour <lino.core.site.Site.calendar_end_hour>`.
  The combobox of time fields is now limited to a reasonable and
  configurable range (default from 7am to 9pm)

- The menu structure for the sales, ledger, products and
  invoicing plugins has changed.

Changes visible to application developers:

- New attribute :attr:`lino.core.actors.Actor.ignore_required_states`
  is used to activate all transitions of a workflow.

- New method :meth:`lino_xl.lib.cal.EventGenerator.has_auto_events`.
  The :class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.UpdateEntries` button is now hidden when
  this returns False.

- Instantiator now support (editable) remote fields. 
  The code for creating a :class:`lino.core.fields.RemoteField` is now
  in :mod:`lino.core.fields` (no longer in :mod:`lino.core.store`).

- Fixed a bug in :class:`lino.modlib.users.StartPlan` action which
  didn't work when subclassed and used on another model than the
  :class:`Plan`.

- New user role :class:`lino.core.roles.Expert`.  And
  :class:`SiteAdmin` inherits from it.

  The :class:`lino.mixins.duplicable.Duplicate` action is now visible
  only for experts.

- The default value for :attr:`allow_merge_action
  <lino.core.model.Model.allow_merge_action>` is now `False`. As a
  result we have much less dialog actions and the merge button is no
  longer available on many models.  That's whay
  :func:`show_complexity_factors` shows much less views now (every
  mergeable model had one automatically createdd dialog window for the
  merge actions)
  (I am not sure whether this won't change back in the future).
  
- Course.events_by_course is now a method, no longer a queryset


There was a problem (:ticket:`2665`) for building the book after above
changes.

:mod:`lino_noi.lib.noi`
:mod:`lino_noi.lib.noi.workflows`
:mod:`lino_noi.lib.noi.user_types`
     
:mod:`lino_vilma.lib.vilma`
:mod:`lino_vilma.lib.vilma.workflows`
:mod:`lino_vilma.lib.vilma.user_types`
  
