:date: 2018-11-20

==========================
Tuesday, November 20, 2018
==========================

Uff! Yesterday (and now) I finally got my work of the last 10 days
committed and pushed and the test suites to pass and the docs to
build.

There was a problem (:ticket:`2665`) for building the book after above
changes.  I had to remove ``workflows`` and ``models`` from the
:rst:dir:`autosummary` directives of :mod:`lino_vilma.lib.vilma` and
:mod:`lino_noi.lib.noi`.  Prosa docs :mod:`lino_noi.lib.noi.workflows`
and :mod:`lino_vilma.lib.vilma.workflows` still don't seem it seems to
work.  To be continued. Not urgent.

While thinking with Thierry about whether he feels able to learn
Sphinx in order to write end-user docs for Lino applications, I
reviewed some documentation: :ref:`writedocs` and :ref:`ug.noi`
(EDIT: also `man` and `dev.manuals`, which no longer exist)


Upgrade on the :ref:`tera` production site
==========================================

I did a next upgrade on the :ref:`tera` production site on our way to
:ref:`tera.18.11.1`.

Errors encountered during the migration:

- TypeError: 'min_asset' is an invalid keyword argument for this function

- Okay this one was almost expected::

    Abandoning with 5 unsaved instances:
    - finan.BankStatementItem [u'Account {} needs a partner'] (3 object(s) with primary key 460, 775, 483)
    - finan.BankStatementItem [u'Account {} cannot be used with a partner'] (2 object(s) with primary key 164, 234)

  Moved the validation code into a data checker to deactivate it
  temporarily and then run it after the migration so that we can
  inspect the problems manually.  For convenience, data checkers now
  have a new method :meth:`check_instance
  <lino.modlib.checkdata.choicelists.Checker.check_instance>`

- The amount field on Guest or Event must be disabled or not depending
  on the Invoicing policy of the course.

  New method
  :meth:`lino_xl.lib.invoicing.InvoiceGenerator.get_last_invoicing` is
  used to disable the amount field on events for which an invoice has
  been issued.

  This required a cool new rule: when generating invoices, the plan's
  :attr:`max_date <lino_xl.lib.invoicing.Plan.max_date>` goes into the
  :attr:`voucher_date <lino_xl.lib.accounting.Voucher.voucher_date>` and
  the plan's :attr:`today <lino_xl.lib.invoicing.Plan.today>` goes
  into the :attr:`entry_date <lino_xl.lib.accounting.Voucher.entry_date>`
  of the invoice.

  Because when they write invoices for september e.g. on the 8th of
  october, therapists don't want to have all their calendar entries
  locked

  The default value of
  :attr:`lino.modlib.system.SiteConfig.hide_events_before` in a demo
  project was set (by :mod:`lino_xl.lib.cal.fixtures.std`) to April
  1st (of the current year when demo_date was after April and of the
  previous year when demo_date before April) I changed this to January
  1st because in tera1 it was disturbing that most calendar entries
  were already hidden.


- Cannot import session 109972 because there is no user NM
  Cannot import session 109972 because there is no user FK

  --> manually create users fk and nm to fix this for the next import.


Note : the book testsuite now has some failures caused by my changes.
I will fix them as soon as possible.
