:date: 2018-12-05

===========================
Wednesday, December 5, 2018
===========================

I am still working on `our new cooperation directives.
<https://saffre-rumma.net/dl/Kooperationsrichtlinien.pdf>`__. Here is an
example of the topics I need to consider.

Last Friday I did the final sprint for :ref:`tera.18.11.1`. Of course these
changes caused `a series of failures on travis
<https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/book/jobs/461750501>`__. No problem, but
this sprint had been several very intensive days for me, and it was clear that
the dirty and less urgent work of adapting the test suite had to wait.
Only now I find time to care for these failures.
At least one of them (`L4727
<https://travis-ci.org/lino-framework/book/jobs/461750501#L4727>`__) indicates
that my change potentially introduced a changed behaviour in :ref:`welfare`.
Why does :class:`lino_xl.lib.notes.NotesStaff` cause a different result in
:ref:`welfare.usertypes`?

But stop!  Who is going to pay for this work?  Who *should* pay for it? The
work of adapting the test suites is less fun and the customer sees no immediate
benefit, but it is required for maintaining the quality of the framework.

Because I made the work of repairing the test suite only *after* the release,
the customer will have difficulties to pay me for this work. If I had done it
before* the release, the release would have been done only now, the customer
may grumble about my slowness but would (if they are of good will) accept that
this work is needed.

But let's work on this and later continue to think about our question.

So the user types 110, 120 and 420 in :ref:`welfare` now have the additional
permission :class:`lino_xl.lib.notes.NotesStaff`.  This has to do with the fact
that the new role NotesStaff was required for :ref:`tera` because a secretary
in Tera should not see notes even though they are staff for other plugins. So
it is normal that users 110, 120 and 420 in welfare (who were OfficeStaff
before) now also need the NotesStaff role.  Which confirms that I just need to
adapt the test case.

Note that this failure was in welfare, another test suite than tera.  IOW one
customer asked for a change which caused an API change in the XL, and that API
change caused work for another customer.

Other failures on Travis were in the test suite for tera. So they were caused
by changes for which the customer asked me (indirectly). One of these changes
was an optimization of the grid layout for
:class:`lino_tera.lib.products.Products`.  Also here the customer might grumble
and say "I didn't ask for that concrete change".  Indeed it was my "intuitive"
decision to remove the category from their product configuration.  I removed it
because the category is indeed not used anymore in Tera and it would cause
misunderstandings and increased need for support to leave it there.

Another failure was because :class:`lino_xl.lib.cal.GuestRole` now has a new
field :attr:`lino_tera.lib.cal.GuestRole.is_teacher`. They need this because
presences of a teacher must not get invoiced. I had to find back `394ab28c
<https://github.com/lino-framework/tera/commit/394ab28c25375280c2888096c27ef0536b83ae1b>`__
in order to remember this explanation.


.. inherits
   from :class:`lino.mixins.ref.Referrable` and therefore has a new field
   (:attr:`ref`).  Yet another intuitive decision of mine for Tera.  They did not
   ask for it directly, but I believe that they will like and need it.  I could
   have done it only for Tera (in :class:`lino_tera.lib.cal` instead of
   :class:`lino_xl.lib.cal`).  This too was my own intuitive decision.  Maybe it
   was stupid, because it is likely to break some test suite in other applications
   as well.

Another change I did on Friday (`ca51d871
<https://github.com/lino-framework/tera/commit/ca51d871c5fd16f277f4d1291f2b016916391bd9#diff-ec9ea4d05b30af47fd8bd640eec3f345>`__):
:class:`courses.Course` has two new fields: :attr:`modified` and
:attr:`tariff`.  Both changes were needed for a change the customer can
understand: dossiers are now sorted by date of last modification.

And the  new field tariff is caused by their invoicing rules.  Note en passant
that courses.Course already had a field named `tariff` which contained data
imported from TIM.  I renamed that field to `partner_tariff`. Also
:class:`lino_tera.lib.courses.Enrolment` has the new field :attr:`tariff`.

They now have two tariffs in they demo database: "every event" and "max. 10
events".  This is in order to explore and fix and cover a bug with
:attr:`lino_xl.lib.invoicing.Tariff.max_asset` where I said min instead of max
in the

I renamed `prepayment_product` to `cash_daybook`.

A side effect in :ref:`cosi`: the menu items for configuring *Products* and
Product Categories* are no longer in the user menu but in the config menu.
Since there are no production users of :ref:`cosi` I can decide that this is
okay.  And :ref:`cosi` must now explicitly set menu_group for products to
sales, not products.

I changed the test dumps in lydia: removed 18.8.0 because it was now failing
because of the new tariff field.  Getting the import from 18.8.0 to pass would
require me to write a migrator.  But that would be overkill since I know that
there is no production site of Tera 18.8.0 out there.

The above shows that the work of a developer during a sprint is very complex,
and documenting it as detailed as I did now takes more time than actually doing
it.  Yes, documenting every change is important because only then can others
participate in my decisions.  The question is: do they want this?  I am sure
that neither Olivier nor Annabell want to dive into these questions as deeply.
Gerd in the past sometimes did for fun and because he is curious.  And he
happened to give valuable commentsfeedback on such thoughts. But does Annabell
want him to waste his time on such technical things?  Rather not.

A customer does not want to see the gory details.  They want to see how much
time I needed per change request.  They ask for explanations only if one of
their request takes more time than hey think acceptable.

Another problem for which I cannot ask anybody to pay because it was caused by
my decision to split the "Lino devclopers guide" from the "Lino manual": build
docs for patrols, logos, algus were failing because of changed
intersphinx_mapping.

*En passant*, while fixing this problem I also fixed two more test failures
which were a side effect of the changes made for Tera: Voga also must define
its own :class:`ProductTypes` and set the :attr:`menu_group` for products to
sales.

Changements Welfare Chatelet
============================

I had a meeting with Mathieu about :ticket:`2687` and then started to work on
it.  Release notes Welfare FR :ref:`welcht.18.12.0`.

