:date: 2018-12-18

==========================
Tuesday, December 18, 2018
==========================

Today I got this one while working in Pycharm::

    #
    # A fatal error has been detected by the Java Runtime Environment:
    #
    #  SIGSEGV (0xb) at pc=0x00007fa4ea4c2093, pid=4390, tid=0x00007fa4d434a700
    #
    # JRE version: OpenJDK Runtime Environment (8.0_152-b16) (build 1.8.0_152-release-1343-b16)
    # Java VM: OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM (25.152-b16 mixed mode linux-amd64 compressed oops)
    # Problematic frame:
    # V  [libjvm.so+0x4c0093]  Par_MarkFromRootsClosure::scan_oops_in_oop(HeapWord*)+0x1d3
    #
    # Failed to write core dump. Core dumps have been disabled. To enable core dumping, try "ulimit -c unlimited" before starting Java again
    #
    # An error report file with more information is saved as:
    # /home/luc/java_error_in_PYCHARM_4390.log
    #
    # If you would like to submit a bug report, please visit:
    #   http://bugreport.java.com/bugreport/crash.jsp
    #
    Aborted (core dumped)

The log file says among others::

    Memory: 4k page, physical 8107960k(890004k free), swap 8324092k(8322300k free)


After reading `this <https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/questions/971551>`__, I
deactivated the "Use hardware acceleration when available" option in my Firefox
preferences, and in my Java VM options ``-Xms1024m`` and ``-Xmx2048m``.


Updated the developer's guide
=============================

I passed once more some hour or two with :ticket:`40` (Improve  technical
documentation about Lino) and updated :ref:`specs`.

A Lino course on PySpace?
=========================

Virgo invited me to create a Lino course on their Python learning platform
https://pyspace.eu

The platform works using "challenges" where the course participant must upload
a source code file which is then tested automatically.  You get immediate
feedback, and you can see the names of other participants who entered the hall
of fame. Nice idea for motivating people to learn Python and (en passant)
finding new employees!

Now how to integrate a Lino course into this system? I mean which question to
ask so that a participant can meaningfully answer using a script to be uploaded
and to be tested. Not yet sure. I have no concrete idea about how a Lino course
on PySpace would look like, but it's a good challenge and will certainly help
Lino to grow.

But anyway, before writing a course I should test whether the instructions in
:ref:`user.install` work.  And oops of course they don't.

Installing Lino using pip under Python 3
========================================

I opened :ticket:`2765` and started to fix the problems.

I released :ref:`cosi` 18.12.0 because of course the August 2018 version would
certainly not collaborate with the December version of Lino.

Appy is not being installed automatically under Python 3.

While trying to find a solution for this, I found `django-appypod
<https://github.com/makinacorpus/django-appypod/>`__ and inspected their
`setup.py
<https://github.com/makinacorpus/django-appypod/blob/master/setup.py>`__. And
--cool!-- they obviously found my blog post :doc:`0506` where I describe how to
add appy under Python by adding it to a requirements file. And --even cooler!--
they found how to integrate this into the :xfile:`setup.py` file using
``dependency_links``. I tried this for Lino and released :ref:`lino.18.12.4`
and a follow-up version 18.12.5.  But couldn't get it to work. Similar problem
as the one reported `here
<https://stackoverflow.com/questions/12518499/pip-ignores-dependency-links-in-setup-py>`__.

Will ask Hamza to work on it.

Summary
=======

All above is what our customers call "general framework development", and they
explicitly do *not* want to pay us for doing this work. IOW today I haven't
done any productive  work. As Hannes formulated already 10 years ago: "You work
on Lino just for fun and in the same way as others sing in a choir." There is a
lot of work waiting for which I would get paid, and "general framework
development" should be of lower priority.

So why am I doing this?  Why does Rumma & Ko pay me and Hamza and Tonis for
doing "general framework development"? Our only answer is that we "believe" in
Lino...

